Paul Ndung’u and George Kebaso @PeopleDailyKe Laikipia county government has sacked 61 medical doctors who have been participating in a three-week strike further raising questions on success of  the planned rollout of the Universal Healthcare Coverage (UHC). Governor Ndiritu Muriithi (pictured) said that despite acknowledging that the strike was unwarranted, the medics never resumed work resulting in their dismissal from service last Friday. “Since the strike had been suspended and declared illegal, half of the doctors who never resumed duty can only be assumed to be absconding duty. Their boycott of work has inconvenienced patients seeking services in our health facilities. “Having followed the laid down procedures and having given them an opportunity for a fair hearing which they have chosen to ignore, dismissing them from the Laikipia County Public Service is the last option which we have now executed by following the due process of the law,” the governor said yesterday. He argued the move was also reached because the doctors ignored a show-cause directive. On June 4, the Employment and Labour Relations Court suspended the strike and declared it as ‘an unprotected.’ On June 20, the same court extended the order after the doctors admitted that the strike was unwarranted and unprocedural. he other professionals in our county such as architects and engineers – who undergo the same duration and intensity of training yet their gross salary is less than Sh100, 000 per month, the doctors, earn a lot. And this is contrary to the principal of equity in the civil service,” the governor added. In addition, he said Laikipia has more doctors compared to other counties such as Nakuru, Turkana, Narok, and Kisumu. “For instance, while one doctor in Laikipia is in charge of 4,090 people, his peer in Nakuru is in charge of 15, 209 patients. This means that our doctors work for lesser hours than their counterparts elsewhere despite earning hefty salaries,” Muriithi stated. While making these announcements, the governor was accompanied by his deputy John Mwaniki and other senior officers from the department. He said the specialist was being paid Sh350, 000 a month while the comparator professionals earn between Sh65,000 and Sh120,000 a month. “We will advertise for these positions and in the mean time all the managers in the sector will be deployed to clinical services,” he said The Governor said the Cuban doctors were still serving in the outpatient and Maternal Child Health (MCH) clinics. The doctors in all hospitals in the county downed tools three weeks ago over non-implementation of a Collective Bargaining Agreement. On May 24, the professionals through Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentist’s Union (KMPDU) issued a strike notice to the County government over the same. The notice issued by Ouma Oluga, the secretary-general of the organisation indicated that the county government failed to respond to issues of the designation of specialists doctors to the right job group backdated when they were due. Others are payment of arrears arising from the delayed promotions and initiation and institutionalisation of CBA implementation committee and the quarterly meetings scheduled in CBA matrix. The medics decried that the county administration just gave vague promises as usual. Davji Bhimji, KMPDU South Rift branch secretary said they had reached a return to work formula with the doctors, which the governor refused to sign. Bhimji said they will seek legal redress on the issue as the union urged the governor to tone down as they seek a lasting solution into the matter.¬