Gloria Milimu @gloriamilimu Alarmed by rising abuse of antibiotics, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has launched a campaign to arrest the spread of antimicrobial resistance, which could have dire implications on treatment of infectious diseases. Through a three-in-one tool— Access, Watch and Reserve (AwaRe)— the global health agency will also monitor the adversity and cost of antibiotics. According to WHO director general Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the tool specifies use of antibiotics for the commonest and serious infections besides availability of those under first line use, which must be used sparingly or preserved and used only as the last resort. In a statement, he said antimicrobial resistance is one of the most urgent health risks, which threatens to undo a century of medical progress. He attributes the threat on  weak pharmaceutical  policies in countries, which still allow over-the-counter purchase of medicines, especially antibiotics. “All countries must strike a balance between ensuring access to life-saving antibiotics and slowing drug resistance by reserving the use of some antibiotics for the hardest-to-treat infections,” said the WHO boss. Currently, it is estimated that more than 50 per cent of antibiotics in many countries are used inappropriately such as for treatment of viruses when they only treat bacterial infections or use of the wrong (broader spectrum) antibiotic, thus contributing to the spread of antimicrobial resistance. Bigger risk Dr Gunturu Revathi, a professor of microbiology at the Aga Khan University Hospital in Nairobi, says 70 per cent of organisms grown in their laboratories from patient samples have resistance to at least two to three drugs. “Everyone is at risk of developing resistance, however, the bigger risk is for hospitalised patients and those who already have underlying conditions such as diabetes, cancers, tumours and hypertension because they get repeated infections that require treatment,” she says.  Experts say environmental pollution has also been linked  with  the rising antimicrobial resistance.