Boxing Association of Kenya (BAK) holds its elections today after months of controversies from the time the tenure of the last office lapsed two years ago. The Sports Dispute Tribunal (SDT) ruled on Tuesday that the polls will go on as scheduled saying it is the only way to restore sanity in the sport. The exercise will be overseen by the Independent Electoral and Boundary Commission (IEBC) and other sporting institutions in the country. In the hotly-contested chairman’s position, Anthony Ombok Otieno ‘Jamal’ and Kennedy Otieno seek to unseat John Kameta who has served in the position for the last six years. It is not clear whether Kameta is defending his seat but the other two who have made extensive countrywide tours are serious about their bid. Nairobi BAK chairman Kennedy Otieno ‘Kentrack’ who owns Kentrack Boxing Club urged for the legitimate process to be followed in the polls to avoid future squabbles. Kameta, in a quick rejoinder yesterday asked why there was confusion from those involved. In the SDT ruling, a parallel body Boxing Federation of Kenya (BFK) had sought a hearing, but the notice for election has been sent out by BAK, which is under Kameta. “I don’t know when BFK was formed and who the officials are. I have not sat in a meeting where the change of name has been a topic and neither has there been a Special General Meeting (SGM) to discuss the same. The communication from the international body (AIBA) is very clear on these matters and I wonder how the decision (to hold elections) was reached,” said Kameta. “We as former boxers have suffered immensely under the current regime and it reaches a time when you feel our boys and girls have had enough and need a fresh impetus in their careers,” said Jamal. Felt betrayed Kentrack felt betrayed by the election process that has in the last few months split the boxing fraternity down the middle. “From nowhere, there was a candidate who did not want the elections to go on. He sought to get a post to allow him to run for elections. Since then, BAK has not been the same. Most of the clubs have stuck to the rules and regulations. Right now, the clubs that provide a bulk of the country’s boxers are not taking part in the league. I am not ready to see boxing suffer for selfish interests. I will not participate in a process that will kill the sport,” said Kentrack. Paul Mung’ori, secretary of the Kameta camp said: “That’s part of a coup d’etat that started in 2017.  The era of coups ended with the enactment of Sports Act. Kenya is a constitutional democracy. The council has members as per BAK constitution. Kameta, George Onyango (Foreman) and I are to drive the process. The rest are strangers. There must be a rule of law.” Mung’ori was appointed BAK secretary during a previous Council Meeting at Kaloleni Social Hall in August last year. Mung’ori replaced Isaac Mbote, who had been suspended in 2016 for missing executive committee meetings, but the tribunal dismissed the appointment. – Additional reporting by Derek Otieno