Music is a universal language. Its authenticity is achieved when regions create their own version of music with the available resources. And as Alfayo Onyango writes, mainstream and niche music genres consumed by Kenyan listeners are diverse The label ‘Kenyan music’ can be argued as an outdated subjective idea, especially in a globalised age, powered by the Internet. Kenyan artistes now have a larger audience to engage the international community. External penetration into the Kenyan airwaves has allowed for a plethora of music genres to thrive, inspire and influence. And in the course of these events, some local genres have remained intact while some have lost their significance. The science of music is an ever-expanding phenomenon as newer generations adapt to newer audience demands and music technology innovation. For example, hip-hop — an American inner city groove that started in the African American infiltrated areas of New York in the 70s — has become one of the most appreciated cultures worldwide. Many regions, including Kenya, have since localised the culture, applying more identifiable traits such as the use of local languages (including slang) to express artists’ ideas, feelings, trials, tribulations and aspirations, making it an instrument of hope. Locally, we are gifted with exclusive music styles that the rest of the world would never know existed, owing to our ethnic diversity. Even as urbanism has played its role, the richness and authenticity are alive in today’s music, preserved by contemporary artists who perform in indigenous dialects or music styles that exude an exclusive Kenyan culture. Artistic orthodoxies The purpose of original sounds from Kenya’s communities was mostly to pass down history to younger generations and relay messages of religion, domestic and social awareness through the lyrics. “Benga rhythm is a fusion of Luo traditional music with Congolese rhumba influences that emerged in the 1950s when young Luo musicians acquired the guitar. It was later adopted by other Kenyan communities who have now added their own flavours to it,” popular benga performer Makadem tells Spice. Traditional music genres, however, have almost holistically been modernised with more elements added to them, as well as conservation of the essentials included so as not to lose their base that has made them what they are. “All music genres have room for innovation once understood by the creatives. You can’t break rules if you don’t know them,” explains Makadem. Urban mugithi artiste Ayrosh says: “African language, rhythms and melodies are great. They are fresh. They have been sampled all over the world. It only makes sense for us Africans to embrace them. Also there are some stories that can only be told in local languages. Urban mugithi, for example, refers to the fusions we make when we play live music. We fuse some classic sounds such as mugithi, mwomboko with new genres such as trap soul, house and reggae.” He says his latest project titled Murasta EP has incorporated a lot of Afro-house elements, but still deeply rooted in the Gikuyu language. “I would think I am unique and try as much as possible to beat my own path. It’s important to me that the music I put out is distinctly Ayrosh and all those who hear it can pick it out. Other artistes including Kwame Rigii and Fadhilee Itulya are also redefining how we write and play African music. There are numerous others pushing boundaries and trying new alternatives with the African language,” says Ayrosh. Global trends Contemporary Kenyan music is eclectic. The youth are influenced by a lot of Western cultures found in the information, fashion and trends that do not necessarily originate from their motherland, thanks to the Internet. The populous is more exposed and Kenya’s noteworthy Internet penetration is a testament that it is not easy to just stick to traditionalism when we have endless access to the outside world. Excluding gospel music, the music on rotation today is a combination of sub-genres of genge and kapuka, which came into the scenes early in the Millennium. Digital music platforms such as Mdundo and YouTube suggested that the algorithms favour this new wave of music that the youth are gravitating towards the most, with only gospel appearing to ‘compete’. “Ethic (a fast-rising Kenyan boy group) music would be categorised as a sub-genre of genge and kapuka. It also borrows heavily from dancehall. Both kapuka and genge are heavily influenced by dancehall and this makes Ethic music no different. It’s a modern sound of a different generation,” says record producer Eric Musyoka. Music that incorporates dance, inner-city highlife, explicitness, day-to-day experiences and Sheng (slang), has to become one of the most protruding sounds witnessed in Kenya. This has been a factor that recently helped Ethic score a huge publishing deal with one of the biggest music companies in the world, Universal Music Group, through its subsidiary AI Records, with only five songs to their name. Ethic’s emergence has been met with polarising opinions but has encouraged conversations in Kenya’s music scene today. Generational change Musyoka adds: “Each generation has its own form of expression that an older generation might find difficult to relate to. Music is a subjective matter and everyone has their own preference and taste. You hardly hear Western audiences comparing quality from one generation to another saying one is better than the other. I enjoyed Michael Jackson and I am enjoying Drake and Arianna Grande. I enjoyed Kalamashaka and I thoroughly enjoy Khaligraph Jones and King Kaka. I have worked with three generations of musicians and each generation has its hits and misses both in technical and creative quality.” “The main reason I think our audiences are plagued by this comparison mentality is because of the disconnect in audiences from generation to generation and isolation of audiences along with social and economic classes. Therefore, music is rarely enjoyed as a social medium across generations,” he says. Neo-soul and Afro-fusion are another examples of 254’s excellence. From Mercy Myra to heartbreak kids Sauti Sol, H_Art The Band, Kaskazini and Wendy Kemunto, the 254 will never fail to bring forth outstanding talent. “My music speaks to someone similar to me; the modern day African millennial. We are fighting a battle of not losing our traditions and cultural heritage such as language, which is why artists can express themselves in whatever language they choose. Personally, I feel the responsibility to communicate to even the most local person means going to the extent of using my Kisii language,” says Kemunto.