Richard Ngatia has taken over leadership of Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry at a time SMEs are facing severe cash crunch due to unpaid bills and reduced credit. He spoke to Writer KINYURU MUNUHE on his vision for members. QUESTION: What are the major gains and or shortfalls for the business with regard to the 2019-2020 Budget Statement presented by National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich? ANSWER: We welcome the 2019-2020 Budget Statement whose theme is creating jobs, transforming lives-harnessing the ‘Big Four’ plan. The public budget process is one of the key advocacy areas for the chamber as budgetary statements have direct and indirect implication to the business community. We expect the new measures taken by Treasury to finance the Sh2.8 trillion budget will improve revenue generation. Q:  The SME sector has been one of the hardest hit by lack of access to credit, market for goods and services. What remedy will the chamber adopt to address these concerns? A: One of these is our latest policy brief dubbed “Improving access to credit in Kenya” where we took up the issue of inaccessibility to credit and made recommendations to the government to come up with a Biashara Fund to finance and support the needs of SMEs. The chamber is glad the government has taken up our recommendation and created the fund which will give special priority to SMEs owned by the youth, women and persons living with disabilities. We also made some recommendations to the government through our most recent policy submission “Advancement of SMEs” requesting the government to establish a Credit Guarantee Scheme. The chamber is delighted to note the government took our submissions and an SME Credit Guarantee Scheme is in the process of being launched for the benefit of the business sector. Q: How do you intend to steer the chamber to create partnership and support from donor partners and private sector? A: The most important thing is build a formidable foundation for bilateral and multilateral engagement. Locally, we have made substantial progress within a short duration. For example, Equity Bank has committed to roll financing without collateral for macro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in partnership with the chamber. We also recently made a submission to the Treasury for direct support to the chamber and submitted our solutions on the advancement of the MSME sector. Kenya School of Government has committed to offer training to all chamber leaders. We are also in discussion with British Council on their impact investing programme. Also, donor partners have committed to capacity building programmes, sustainability and corporate governance training. Q: Businesspeople are grappling with unpaid bills by national and county governments, has the chamber been adequately voiced their concerns? ANSWER: In our policy brief last year dubbed “Enhancing Commitment to Contractual Obligations by Government in Payment of Suppliers” we noted SMEs which constitute majority of our membership were facing the challenge of bulging pending bills which affected their liquidity, operations and job security of workers. We initiated dialogue with the government on how best the issue of pending bills could be addressed and we are now glad that the government has prioritised payment of Sh10.9 billion which will be honoured by end of this month. We expect payment of the bills to improve liquidity of SMEs, expand operations and create employment to the Kenyan youth.