With three major competitions in a span of two month for the women’s volleyball national team, Malkia Strikers, head coach Shailen Ramdoo is confident his squad, currently training at Kasarani, will be ready for the challenge ahead. Their busy schedule comprises African Nations Championship, FIVB Women’s Volleyball Intercontinental Olympic Qualification Tournament and All Africa Games all which will take place between July and August and it will be interesting to see how the squad handles the three competitions. Ramdoo, assisted by Japheth Munala with Josp Barasa as trainer, is set to guide the team in Egypt from July 7 as they seek to reclaim the Nations’ title they lost to Cameroon in 2017. “I always have a new challenge for my players in every training session and they are getting better. After the All Africa Games qualifiers in Uganda, there is visible progress. The players are physically better. However, we are encouraging them to open their minds and think without any set boxes,” said Ramdoo. Progress and changes “My goal is to see the team become competitive on the international scene. However, there is a level of progress and changes we need to achieve ahead of the Olympic qualifiers. We are working towards achieving the standards that the international level demands and the Africa competition will help towards that,” he added. After the Egypt assignment, the team will head to Italy where they will take on the Netherlands, hosts Italy and Belgium from August 2-4 in Pool F of the Intercontinental tournament that is a qualifying competition for the 2020 Olympics. The winners in each of the six pools will qualify for the Olympics.  “The tactical, physical and mental strength needed in these qualifiers is what we are working on by training with some men’s team players. They will provide the challenge we expect in the world stage,” said Ramdoo. After the competition in Italy, Ramdoo’s charges will start preparations for the All Africa Games set for Morocco on August 23 to September 3.