The High Court has ruled that the Ruaraka land is a public property and faulted the National Land Commission (NLC) for misleading the Ministry of Education into paying the alleged owner, businessman Francis Mburu, Sh1.5 billion ostensibly for compensation. The court exonerated Ministry of Education officials saying they were misled by NLC into undertaking a compulsory acquisition of the land, which led to loss of public funds. The NLC chairman was then Muhammad Swazuri. Justices Bernard Eboso, Elijah Obaga and Kossy Bor, Friday ruled that Ruaraka land was a public property and therefore did not require compulsory acquisition. “We find that the compulsory land acquisition should not have happened in the first place. One cannot compulsory acquire what is already a public land,” ruled Justice Obaga. The judges said the compulsory acquisition of the land did not meet the threshold and should not have been acquired in the first place. NLC had claimed they searched through the ministry’s records and found that it belonged to Mburu. But the judges said a search is not a conclusive evidence of ownership and one must go further. They ruled that Ruaraka High and Drive In primary schools sit on public land and the property, which could not be subject to compulsory acquisition under Part 8 of the Land Acquisition Act. Mburu had claimed ownership of the 13.77-acre land saying it was a public property of which the government paid Sh1.5 billion down payment. NLC moved to court last year to determine the validity of the land title and whether the schools sit on public property. According to the judges, NLC did not follow elaborate steps as stipulated in the lands Act on acquisition but rather moved by a complaint by two companies belonging to Mburu; Afrison Export Import Limited and Huelands Limited, which filed claim over historical injustices. The judges noted that no explanation was given by the two companies why they did not pursue compensation on the land in the 80s when the school was established. “The compensation claim giving rise to the reference only emerged in 2016 as a historical injustice claim by the two interested parties. In our view the schools have been on the land for the past 30 years without any contestation,” said Justice Obaga. The judges noted that two searches conducted in 2018 and 1991 were contradictory, which shows land records can be manipulated. NLC had claimed it searched through the ministry’s records and found that it belonged to Mburu. The judges, however, ruled that the NLC ought to have gone further as a search is not a conclusive evidence of ownership. They noted the evidence on record showed that the government made double payments and the relevant land register still bears the names of the two companies as the registered proprietors of the entire parcels. They said NLC should have carried out due diligence as that is what the law requires of it and the money, which is public money which should not have been paid.