Ernest Mbiri @PeopleSports11 The Nairobi Copa Coca Cola U16 tournament takes place at Lenana School and Dagoretti High School.  The tournament, which starts this morning has attracted some of the traditional football schools in the region. The tournament that will be used to select Nairobi’s representative at the national finals set for Kisumu next month, will see schools from across the region turn up for the competitive stages of the tournament with Ofafa Jericho, Dagoretti and Upper Hill expected to gun for the title and ticket for the nationals. On their way to the finals, Dagoretti blanked Nrurumo 2-0 while Upper Hill emasculated Jamhuri (3-0), (Dandora 4-0) and Sunshine High (3-0). They face Moi Forces Aacdemy at Lenena School this morning. Others set for the regional finals include Lengata High, Uhuru High, Ofafa Jericho and Waylight. In the girls’ category, Dagoretti Mixed High School will tackle Starehe Girls following a win a 3-0 win against OLM. Pangani Girls are also closer to the finals after beating Embakasi Girls 4-1. Behaviour change Dagoretti Mixed tackle Buruburu Girls in the final. The other girls’ teams that will be hoping to win the title are Ruai Girls and Highridge Girls High School. The Coca-Cola System in Kenya has embarked on an environmental behaviour change campaign involving Copa Coca-Cola 2019 participating secondary school students, educating them on the importance of a cleaner environment by taking care of plastics disposal. One school, in every region (former provinces) pitches are set to be revamped. The winner will be determined by the school that achieves the highest number of kilos over the tournament period which runs from May to July 2019. The programme is part of the company’s initiative to address the plastic waste pollution. Kenya, amongst 14 other Southern, East and Central Africa countries, has been earmarked to kick start the project, set up to stimulate plastic recycling industries and create awareness of plastic waste pollution.