Lewis Njoka @LewisNjoka Safaricom customers can now make voice and video calls over its 4G network following the introduction of a new calling technology. Popularly known as Voice over LTE (VoLTE) and Video over LTE (ViLTE), the services are immediately available countrywide and will be offered at no additional cost compared to standard calls. Safaricom said subscribers will enjoy High Definition (HD) voice and video calls that are ultra clear with reduced background noise, making the conversation more effective. “VoLTE eliminates background noise, background jitter and other distortions that are characteristic of older calling technologies,” said the company yesterday. The services, accessible to both pre-paid and post-paid subscribers will only be available to customers with VoLTE- enabled devices and will be charged from airtime, not data. The services cannot be used across networks. To use VoLTE one will need to be in an area covered by 4G network and have a VoLTE- ready phone using a 4G SIM card. However, Safaricom plans to make the services available to more phone brands. Director of Consumer Business at Safaricom, Charles Wanjohi said the launch is part of the firm’s mission of connecting people to people and people to opportunities and has been made possible by the expansion of 4G network in the country. Currently, the services are available on five brands Samsung, Nokia, Huawei, Tecno and Safaricom’s flagship brand, Neon. The service is still not available to iPhone users. Global players Samsung Kenya Head of Internet and Mobile, Charles Kimari lauded the launch, saying it was a good step towards ensuring that Kenya moved at par with other global players in availing helpful technology to end users. The VoLTE service is aimed at the mass market but can be helpful to professionals such as journalists due to its HD quality. A phone that is already activated will display “4G VoLTE” on the screen and shows the option to place a video call when one is calling. Safaricom rolled out a 3G network in 2007 and 4G network in 2014.