Following in the footsteps of Joseph-Antoine Bell, Thomas Nkono and Jacques Songo’o as the latest in a line of acclaimed Cameroon goalkeepers is no minor task, but the Indomitable Lions are placing their faith in Andre Onana, one of the season’s revelations in Europe, as they bid to defend their title in Egypt. Remarkably, his season which started with Ajax last July in the second Champions League qualifying round is still not over. Throughout a campaign equally gruelling as unforgettable, Onana has experienced it all from an epic European adventure, featuring memorable matches against Real Madrid, Juventus and Tottenham, to a league and cup double. But that’s not enough to satisfy the 23-year-old who is craving further success at the Africa Cup of Nations, as Cameroon look to defend their continental crown on July 19. “Our goal is to bring this title back to Cameroon once more,” he told AFP, ahead of his team’s opening 2-0 victory against Guinea-Bissau in Ismailia. “It’s true it’s complicated and difficult, because we’re going to play against very good teams. But I think we’re going to succeed,” he said. Unlike his cousin Fabrice Ondoa, a major architect behind Cameroon’s run to the 2017 title, Onana wasn’t in Gabon, a tournament played in its traditional January and February time slot, having preferred to focus on his club.  A fan favourite, Ondoa has since lost his place in goal, but he did earn the right to a song penned in his honour to celebrate his achievements. “Fabrice and me, it’s family! We’re different … I don’t need a song, the most important thing is the title, both individually and collectively,” Onana said, refusing to draw comparisons between the two stoppers. “If we bring it back to Cameroon, it will be something good for the country. Sporting victories form part of the stability of our country,” he added, with Cameroon, the original hosts of this year’s edition, stripped of the tournament last November after falling behind in preparations. Blood relations aside, Cameroon’s knack of consistently producing top goalkeepers in uncanny.                                                                     -AFP 