Mukalo Kwayera @Kwayeram It is November 1989. The venue is Isinya Girls High. The function a fundraiser for the school. Among the dignitaries are Vice-President George Saitoti, Internal Security Assistant Minister John Keen and the local District Commissioner. The function is proceeding well until Saitoti makes a remark that infuriates Keen. The fuming assistant minister springs from his seat and charges at the Vice-President. Keen is restrained by orderlies. Meanwhile, Saitoti and Keen supporters turn on each other with punches and kicks. Mayhem reigns. Keen demands that the function be brought to an end but Saitoti insists it must go on. Not knowing what to do in the circumstances — both Saitoti and Keen were his bosses — the District Commissioner rushes to the office of the headmistress where he makes a quick call to the Permanent Secretary for Internal Security Hezekiah Oyugi to seek advice on how he should handle the messy situation. The boss Oyugi instructs the DC to tell the VP and the assistant minister “wapeleke maneno upande ya amani (peace be restored in the meeting).” The DC rushes back to the rowdy meeting and announces: “Mkubwa amesema tupeleke maneno upande wa amani (the boss has ordered that peace be restored in the meeting). Calm returns immediately. What the DC did not disclose was the identity of the boss he had referred to. Saitoti and Keen may have assumed it was President Daniel arap Moi or they may as well have rightly guessed the mkubwa was Oyugi, after all the Internal Security PS’s word was law. Oyugi stands out as the epitome of the power and influence the office of the accounting officer in the Office of the President, now known as Principal Secretary, has come to be associated with. Since Oyugi’s time, Internal Security PSs have been figures of mammoth influence with the eye and ear of the President. Notable names are Zakayo Cheruiyot (later Kuresoi MP) who took over from Oyugi, Wilfred Kimalat, Ali Korane (now Garissa Governor) who was the first to hold the office in President Mwai Kibaki’s government and Francis Kimemia (now Nyandarua Governor), Mutea Iringo (now National Cereals and Produce Board chair) and Monica Juma (now Foreign Affairs Cabinet Secretary). Tongue lashing It is the perch that Karanja Kibicho now occupies. None other than Deputy President William Ruto has a bone to pick with the Kirinyaga-born PS. Ruto is reported to have confronted Kibicho a few weeks ago at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport, where they had gone to welcome President Uhuru Kenyatta who was returning from Rwanda. The DP reportedly accused the PS of placing roadblocks in his political path. Ruto’s allies also claim Kibicho is frustrating the DP’s forays into various parts of the country where he intends to stamp his presence ahead of the 2022 election. The absence of County Commissioners at functions presided over by Ruto in Nyeri and Nyamira counties recently raised eyebrows, with pro-Ruto politicians blaming Kibicho for the anomaly. Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko, whose security was  withdrawn last year, has had run-ins with Kibicho who he accuses of abuse of office and usurping his superiors’ powers. Kibicho’s name also featured in a sensational letter purportedly written by a Cabinet Secretary from Central Kenya to Uhuru, claiming the PS had introduced the subject of eliminating Ruto at a meeting of CSs from the region. Letter probe The contents of the letter have since become a subject of investigations by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations. But during President Jomo Kenyatta’s reign and early years of Moi’s, the Internal Security PS did not wield as much influence as Kibicho does, today. Instead, it was the Internal Security minister and the Head of Civil Service who called the shots. During the Kenyatta years, Minister of State in the Office of the President in charge of Internal Security Mbiyu Koinange and Head of Public Service Geoffrey Kariithi were the wielders of power. In the Moi era, Internal Security Minister GG Kariuki, Heads of Civil Service Jeremiah Kiereini, Joseph Letting and Simeon Nyachae had the President’s ear.