Zaddock Angira and Mercy Mwai @PeopleDailyKe A fresh storm was brewing in the Jubilee Party yesterday following assassination claims by Deputy President William Ruto against Cabinet secretaries and senior government officials from the Mt Kenya region. As the CSs reported to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) to record statements, Members of Parliament opposed to Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid, coalescing around the Kieleweke group, dragged President Uhuru Kenyatta’s name into the saga, claiming he was aware of “a series of meetings organised by the personalities to discuss development projects in the region”. Though Ruto’s office did not comment on the matter, DCI boss George Kinoti said the DP had on Sunday called his office alleging there were plans to assassinate him. Ruto’s allegations were based on a protest letter purported to have been written to the President by a Cabinet secretary, but whose authenticity the DCI could not vouch for. According to the letter, the CSs and other top State officials had discussed the possibility of eliminating the DP to allegedly stop him from ascending to the presidency. By last evening, a team of detectives headed by Inspector Michael Sang of the Serious Crimes Unit had been assembled to record a statement from Ruto and start investigations. Yesterday morning, Trade Cabinet secretary Peter Munya and his two colleagues, Joe Mucheru (ICT) and Sicily Kariuki (Health), dismissed the assassination reports and said it was difficult to respond to verbal allegations. They insisted that the DP must first file a formal and substantive complaint for them to respond. “There was no meeting to plan to assassinate DP Ruto. It is irresponsible, unfair and intended to portray us in a very bad light,” said Munya, adding that they would decide what action to take once investigations are completed. The three CSs and Permanent secretaries Andrew Kamau (Petroleum), Joseph Njoroge (Energy) and Presidential Delivery Unit secretary Andrew Wakahiu, reported to the DCI headquarters yesterday morning after being summoned. No plans “The officers have confirmed to us that the DP made a call and complained that some CSs and other senior government officials have been meeting at La Mada Hotel, and specifically on May 14, to plan how to kill him,” said Munya. Transport CS James Macharia was also said to have been summoned but did not accompany his colleagues. Addressing the press after leaving the DCI Kiambu Road headquarters, Munya said they had made it clear to detectives that at no time had they met anywhere, not just at La Mada, to plot the killing of the DP. “We want to confirm we have been having meetings. Indeed, we had a meeting in La Mada and we will continue having meetings because under the Constitution of Kenya, there is freedom of assembly and expression,” he added. Later, addressing a press conference at Parliament Buildings, MPs allied to the Kieleweke group which also supports the cooperation between President Uhuru and Opposition leader Raila Odinga, claimed the series of meetings being held by the four Cabinet secretaries had the President’s blessings. A call to State House Spokesperson Kanze Dena to comment on the MPs claims that the President had sanctioned the meetings and picked Munya as the leader went unanswered. And the intrigues in Jubilee Party seemed to heighten further with the MPs claiming that a plot had been hatched to “scatter and finish” the unity of Central Kenya leadership. The MPs rubbished claims that the four CSs were plotting Ruto’s assassination. They said attacking the CSs was tantamount to attacking the Mt Kenya region. “When you go after CSs from Mt Kenya you are going for our people. We own these CSs and whatever has happened today will have a negative impact on our region,” said Ngunjiri Wambugu (Nyeri Town). He said the assassination claims were aimed at intimidating the CSs from executing decisions made by the President towards developing the Central region. The six MPs said Uhuru had tasked Munya to head and coordinate the meetings with Central region leaders during a retreat in Naivasha which the President attended. The move was mooted after leaders complained that they could not access most of the CSs. The other MPs who defended the CSs were Paul Koinange (Kiambaa), Maoka Maore (Igembe North), Gathoni Wamuchomba (Kiambu County), Ruth Mwaniki (Kigumo) and Nduati Ngugi (Gatanga). Must be stopped The stand-off was sparked by the letter purporting that Interior PS Karanja Kibicho had organised a series of meetings whose agenda was to shore up support for the President, back the proposed referendum and “go on the offensive against H.E. the DP”. The letter further claimed the Internal Security PS told the meeting on May 28 that the DP must be stopped, but more worrying was the reference to the late Cabinet minister and former Vice President Prof George Saitoti’s plane crash. The author’s name has been blacked out by a felt pen.