Fred Aminga @faminga County governments are seeking approval to raise billions of shillings in the capital markets even as questions abound on their prudence when it comes to managing cash. Should National Treasury give the devolved units the nod, Kenya’s public debt which is currently at Sh5.5 trillion is set to soar, given county government’s appetite for cash. The plan indicates that counties will float bonds based on an ongoing creditworthiness rating if they pass the Commission on Revenue Allocation (CRA) regulations. CRA chairperson Jane Kiringa said yesterday 10 counties have already been identified for shadow ratings to give them credit scores that will inform their readiness for the debt instruments. Additional funds “For counties to get additional funds through the capital markets for infrastructure projects will depend on their ability to pay back the bonds,” said Kiringa. Kiringa was speaking during the launch of the County Creditworthiness initiative by CRA at a Nairobi hotel yesterday. The commission has a constitutional mandate to advise subnational governments on how to finance their operations and investments in ways that meet the fiscal responsibility yardstick. Kiringa said National Treasury will move in to oversee all borrowings with the Office of the Auditor General and Controller of Budget playing a major role in the process. This new source of funds is in addition to the disbursements from the national government, overdrafts from banks, and grants from development partners and internal revenues like taxes. In the second phase of the pilot project, Metropol – one of the three credit reference bureaus licensed by Central Bank of Kenya –will provide relevant ratings based on international barometers with which investors can gauge whether to invest in such bonds or not. The ratings will be aligned to Kenya’s global rating and the National Treasury will guarantee the credit facilities for county governments. This will depend on the county government’s ability to demonstrate they can mobilise funds from other sources. Credit ratings “The credit ratings of counties will basically show their ability to pay back their obligations. The higher the rating the more likely they are to get more cash and at lower rates from the market,” said David Mburu of Metropol. “This rating will enable investors to make an informed decision based on the safest Kenya’s global borrowings and national bonds performances to enable investors to make informed decisions,” he said. Nyandarua County Governor Francis Kimemia said it is important for counties to be enabled to borrow just like the national government. “We need to be partners in this initiative. As they borrow their cash, we need to also borrow ours,” he said. Kimemia whose county has emerged as among those ready for the market on account of performance said resource mapping will be key in enabling them to invest in the right sectors for maximum return. Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati said if counties could get to the stage of borrowing the way US counterparts do, the devolved units could really enhance infrastructure.