Veteran lawyer Paul Gachoka yesterday urged the Judiciary to deal ruthlessly with corrupt individuals who have drained the country’s economy and impoverished the citizenry. He told the Judicial Service Commission (JSC) during his interview for appointment to the Court of Appeal that the institution was the people’s watchdog and should spare no efforts in the war on corruption. Gachoka, who chaired the selection panel of the Independent Police Oversight Agency (IPOA) and served as a member of the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC), said no effort should be spared in cleaning up public bodies to facilitate meaningful service to taxpayers. The lawyer said government’s initiative to instil discipline in the civil service by barring its employees from engaging in business was derailed by failure to provide regulations and legal sanctions. “The procurement sector in government departments scores very high in corruption. Once it is dealt with, 70 per cent of the scourge will be felled,” he said. Gachoka said government’s efforts to recover assets procured by suspects from corrupt transactions were doomed to fail if proper legal mechanisms were not adopted. “There are over 600 pending cases on asset recovery. We need to come up with plausible ways to tackle this treacherous route,” he said. Well versed Gachoka told the 11-member panel, chaired by Chief Justice David Maraga, that he is well suited to sit on the appellate bench with his 28 years’ experience as an advocate. He said he was well versed with the rules of the court. High Court judge Fred Ochieng on the other hand said terrorism suspects from within and beyond Kenya’s borders deserved to be released on bail pending hearing of their cases because of the principle of presumption of innocence and their constitutional right to personal liberty. Only under compelling reasons, albeit at the risk of the country’s security, could courts of law deny freedom to suspected terrorists, he reasoned. “Dealing with terrorism cases is the most difficult road for the courts to work on. The magistrate or judge has to weigh the possible danger to the society if the suspects are released even though they have a right to bail,” Ochieng told the panel at the JSC headquarters in Nairobi.