With less than 24 hours to the start of the 2019 KCB Karen Masters, Kenya’s CJ Wangai thinks better things are in the offing for his spirited Sunshine Tour campaign. The Sigona resident professional, who skipped the recent Sun City Sunshine Tour round due to personal commitments, also believes he is getting stronger with every tournament, thanks to his fifth career hole-in-one which he delivered at the Par-3 11th hole yesterday. Wangai’s hole-in-one was no doubt the highlight of the Pro-Am, traditionally used as warm-up to action proper. Following his stellar shot, Wangai will attempt a repeat performance this week on the par 3 fifth which is incidentally the designated hole for the Sh6.5 million Toyota Rav4 car, a hole-in-one prize, courtesy of Toyota Kenya. “How I wish this had happened on hole five tomorrow. The hole-in-one is definitely a sign of better things to come this week. I have won two tournaments in the KCB Road To Masters and topped the Order of Merit. The hole-in-one couldn’t have come at a better time when we all have our eyes firmly set on Sunshine Tour golf tomorrow (today),” he said. Wangai, who racked up the first two Road to Masters tournaments at Nyali and Thika, achieved yesterday’s feat upon hitting the target from 141 yards with a 52-gap wedge. “I was honestly not going for a hole-one-one. I was just playing my game but when I hit the ball with my wedge into the hole, I was over the moon,” said Wangai, who has had four more hole-in-ones in his golfing career. The 2019 KCB Karen Masters will feature a large filed of 156 golfers, 100 of which will be from the Sunshine Tour. Kenya has a representation of 30 professionals and four single-handicapped amateurs with the rest of the pros drawn from other African countries including Nigeria, Uganda and Zimbabwe. Last year’s hole-in-one star Ryan Cairns from Zimbabwe is back as is defending champion Michael Palmer and runners-up Merrick Bremner. The Kenyan brigade has its usual suspects among them Tony Omuli, Kopan Timbe, Hesbon Kutwa, Justus Madoya, Greg Snow, Dismas Indiza, Riz Charania, David Opati, David Wakhu and Mohit Mediratta, among others. Last year, Kenya had three pros (Indiza, Medirrta and Charania) making the cut and in the inaugural edition in 2017, Snow finished fourth overall.