Johannesburg, Sunday The assumption is that former champions the Ivory Coast, Morocco and South Africa will wage a private war in Group D at the Africa Cup of Nations with Namibia helpless onlookers.But Namibia coach Ricardo Mannetti questions that belief ahead of the June 21-July 19 tournament in Egypt. “I would like to remind the big boys that even small dogs have teeth,” warned the former national team midfielder. Ivory Coast The Ivorians experienced ecstasy and agony in the last two editions, winning the 2015 final in Equatorial Guinea and crashing out after the first round two years ago in Gabon. It is difficult to fathom how the class of 2019 will fare except to note that they have an attack that many rivals must envy. Verdict: Quarters probable, semis possible Morocco The pressure is on the Cup of Nations coach with the winning touch, Frenchman Herve Renard, to bring the trophy back to Morocco after a 43-year absence. Morocco finished first ahead of Guinea in 1976 in the only Cup of Nations decided exclusively by groups, but have reached only one final since, losing to 2004 hosts Tunisia. Renard is the only coach to win the Cup of Nations with different countries, leading outsiders Zambia to glory in 2012 and repeating the feat with underachieving Ivory Coast three years later. Verdict: Likely finalists Namibia Unlike Ivory Coast coach Ibrahim Kamara, Renard and South Africa coach Stuart Baxter, there is no pressure on Mannetti, who admits his team are lucky just to be in Egypt. Trounced 4-1 by Zambia in the final qualifying round, the Brave Warriors made it because leaders Guinea-Bissau snatched a stoppage-time draw to deprive Mozambique of second place. Verdict: First round exit South Africa South Africa go to Egypt as one of the most unpredictable teams. Bafana Bafana scaled the heights at the outset of 2019 qualifying by winning 2-0 in Nigeria, then sank into mediocrity by drawing 0-0 away to lowly ranked Seychelles. England-born Baxter blamed the pitch in the Seychelles for the failure to score, the same surface where Libya netted eight times. Verdict: Anything is possible. -AFP