Lewis Njoka @LewisNjoka The youth have criticised Treasury Cabinet secretary Henry Rotich’s move to tax those engaged in online businesses saying it amounted to double taxation following an increment in internet service levy last year. In his budget speech, Rotich proposed a one-off fee of Sh10,000 in lieu of income tax for those engaged in the Ajira Digital Programme, an initiative that seeks to spur growth in the online jobs sector. After paying the registration fee, one will be exempted from paying income tax for the next three years. In September last year, the Finance Act 2018 introduced a 15 per cent tax increment on internet services, a cost that was passed to internet consumers. “While the move is good as it seeks to support the industry via the Ajira Digital initiative, it is punitive to those working online especially on the back of increased internet costs,” said Arnold Nkonge, an online freelancer said. “We would have preferred that the CS tax online jobs and leave internet charges untouched,” he added. Other bills Taxing the internet automatically increased the cost of doing business for online freelancers. Josephine Mulaa, an online businesslady, said the Sh10,000 one-off payment was an unwelcome intrusion since people working online had several other bills to pay including the cost of accessing journal articles and publishing costs, among others. This is coming at a time when the online jobs industry in Kenya is facing a myriad of challenges, among them competition from India and Bangladesh, countries that have no such taxes. A debate has been raging in Western countries on the ethics of some of the online jobs especially academic writing, a job that involves assisting college and high school students with their school assignments. Already, the UK has requested Paypal, the most popular online money transfer agency for Kenyan freelancers, to stop remitting money to organisations and individuals engaged in offering academic assistance to UK students. This request has seen Paypal accounts of several Kenyan freelancers suspended or completely terminated. Nkonge, however, protests this tag saying theirs is a clean ethical business that has enabled many youths to build homes, invest in other businesses and even start families. “We do not facilitate cheating. We only offer written samples to students to demonstrate what a properly done paper ought to look like. Unfortunately, we cannot do much if they choose to submit these samples to their instructors as their own work,” said Nkonge. The youths called on Rotich to ensure that the taxes collected are put to good use saying the online industry would benefit greatly if the internet was made available in remote villages as opposed to the current situation where access to the internet is only limited to cities and big towns. Job gap In the recent past, online jobs have become popular with youths especially those who fail to secure other jobs after leaving college. However, the jobs have been likened to sweatshops with clients, most of them based in western countries paying a few dollars for projects that would cost them hundreds of dollars in their own countries.