Zaddock Angira @PeopleDailyKe Deputy President William Ruto is yet to record a statement with the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) on  an alleged plot to assassinate him, even as hard questions emerged about the claim. There are also queries on the authenticity of a complaint letter purportedly sent by a Cabinet secretary to President Uhuru Kenyatta  to complain about a plot by Cabinet Secretaries and senior public servants from the Mt Kenya region to frustrate Ruto’s 2022 presidential candidature. It claimed the leaders had met at Hotel La Mada on Thika Road to discuss the anti-Ruto plot. Succession debate The letter dated May 30, surfaced last week on social media, causing a storm in the ruling Jubilee which is locked in a bitter succession debate. On Monday, three Cabinet Secretaries Peter Munya (Trade), Joe Mucheru (ICT) and Sicily Kariuki (Health) honoured summons by the DCI over the assassination claims, but did not record a statement because Ruto  had  not made formal complaint. “There was no meeting to plan to assassinate DP Ruto. It is irresponsible, unfair and intended to portray us in a very bad light,” Munya told the press   after leaving the DCI offices. He added: “The officers have confirmed that the DP made a call to complain that some CSs and other  government officials have been meeting at La Mada Hotel and specifically on 14 May, to plan how to kill him.” Part of the investigations by the DCI is to establish the origin and the veracity of the letter. In the letter, the supposed CS claimed Interior PS Karanja Kibicho had organised a meeting whose agenda was to shore up support for the President, the proposed referendum and to “go on the offensive against H.E. the DP.” Other sources dismissed the allegations, terming them far-fetched. “What role were the people attending the meeting expected to play, given that the DP is one of the most guarded officials,” asked a senior government official. “One should only have access to what they need, and nothing more,” he added. The incident comes at a time when the distribution of the top intelligence reports has been limited to only very few top government officials. “Some high ranking government officials who used to get such reports are not getting them now,” said the source.