Bernice Mbugua @BerniceMuhindi A former prisons officer accused of killing a student on Mombasa Road last year was yesterday found guilty by a Nairobi court of causing death by dangerous driving and giving false information. Senior Resident Magistrate Elector Riany ruled that the prosecution had established that Dismas Gitenge Motongwa  was a dangerous driver and his defence “was full of lies”. Motongwa is said to have hit and killed Maureen Wambui Gachagua, a Kenyatta University student on July 15, 2018, while she crossed the road. He is said to have driven three kilometres with the body on the car bonnet before dumping it in South C Estate. In his defence, Motongwa claimed he thought he had hit a cow and that was why he did not stop. He alleged when one is driving and happens to hit an animal “you cannot stop to identify it,” adding that he was aware there are Maasai herders who often cross the road with animals. However, the investigating officer had told the court Motongwa went back home at Lang’ata Women Prison’s staff quarters, took another car and drove to Lang’ata Police Station where he told them he had hit a cow on Mombasa Road but the officers told him the area was under Industrial Area Police Station’s jurisdiction. Riany ruled out Motongwa’s claims he thought he had killed a cow, saying no cow can be found on the road at 4am and that he was caught on CCTV camera retrieving the body and dumping it. The magistrate noted when Motongwa went to Lang’ata Police Station, he availed the vehicle and took its registration number plate from the boot, an indication that he had stopped and taken it from the scene. Riany noted the number plate had blood that was confirmed to belong to the deceased and that Motongwa  lied that he was on lane 1 yet he was on lane two where the accident occurred. “No one can avoid accident, but the way one handles the case after is what matters,” she ruled. False information The magistrate urgued evidence showed that after he hit the deceased, he came to a halt, struggled to remove the body and in the process, his number plate came off and that is when he reported the incident. Maureen was reportedly leaving a party near Next Gen Mall with her boyfriend when she was hit. One of the witnesses, Boniface Juma, a bouncer at the Blend Lounge, had claimed to have seen the deceased cross the road following a disagreement with the boyfriend earlier inside the club. Motongwa will be sentenced next month.