Businessman Francis Mburu whose claim to the controversial land in Ruaraka was dealt a massive blow by the High Court last week insists he is clean in the matter, even as his lawyers head to court this morning for an appeal on the judgement. Mburu, in an exclusive interview with People Daily said he has deposited a security bond worth Sh 7 billion with the Ethics and Anti Corruption Commission (EACC) as a security in the appeal case in which he says has been marred by political interference. Mburu said that throughout the history of the land and the dispute that arise from a historical injustice claim, he has been dealt unfairly with the system which ignored all his attempts to get justice for a property that belongs to him. “In all these arguments and this is for the public to know, there was an agreement with the planning department of the Nairobi City Council that did not materialise, so the issue of the transfer of the land was null and void. I had intended to develop 1,200 housing units of which the schools and utility conditions should have been met. “I dropped the decision to build the units, thus rendering the utility null. Reasons being, officials of the defunct NCC were involved in improprieties in the process. Tentatively, the surrender was cancelled with the process. I wrote to the director of physical planning Mr Wangondu and he replied acknowledging the same,” said Mburu. The businessman further says that the government went ahead to build 196 units of houses on his land through a company owned by Kangwana and Company Advocates, a move that was hit by headwinds and their registration and acquisition of title deeds impeded to date. He said that the payment went through the due process, from the Ministry of education through the AG’s office to treasury and wondered how it was not detected in the process. “In the first place, there has never been a Deed of Surrender which is prerequisite in a land transfer and surrender agreement. I have never surrendered the 13.5 acres as the sub division was not approved. This was done in public interest and it was not a matter in law at all. In any case, this contentious process has been marred by political interference even in a case where the process went smoothly to conclusion. “The National lands Commission did its research before making raising the matter to pay, there were four meeting which approved the payment. The NLC as a commission, not individually, gazetted the matter in the Kenya Gazette. Nobody raised a query. There after the ministry of education asked treasury to make the payment and it was all approved. There is also another issue that the public should be aware of that some unscrupulous NCC official allocated part of the land to private developers who have have put up high storeyed building,” Mburu said.