Seth Onyango @SethManex The National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich has assured the Salaries and Remuneration Commission that Parliament will not slash their 2019/20 budget. SRC had suffered a setback after the National Assembly passed supplementary estimates, slashing its allocation by Sh125.6 million on claims the commission had earlier incurred unconstitutional expenses. MPs’ move was in retaliation to the commission’s decision to block Sh250,000 the legislators wanted in house allowance. But while unveiling SRC’s strategic plan 2019-2023 yesterday, Rotich promised to intervene to ensure the commission gets its fair share of the national budget. “As an independent commission, we will protect your allocation because you are helping the government in managing the wage bill.” He expressed the need for the nation to tame its ballooning public wage bill and availing more resources for development and delivery of services that the Sh750 billion was spent on wages in the last financial year. Rotich said the country should formulate new employment policies that reward productivity as well as those that help cure growing public debt. “To contain the wage bill, I propose we limit the extension of service for the significant number of civil servants who are retiring after the age of 60 years,” he said. He also proposed a cleansing of the public payroll to weed out ghost workers hence reducing the wage bill burden. On MPs perks, SRC vice chair Dalmas Otieno justified their clamour for more pay but insisted it should be done within the framework of the commission. He termed as arm-twisting the MPs move to slash the commission’s budget, terming it counterproductive. Additional resources “That was a very false strategic reaction, what Parliament should have insisted on is the merit for considering allowances and benefits based on what they do and what level of income is necessary for an MP to perform their functions,” he said. “They do need additional allocation allocated to them but they should insist on the merit on what they need the additional resources for.” Otieno, however, said the MPs should not arm-twist SRC which is acting within the law. Early this month, SRC filed a court case to stop further implementation of house allowance for legislators. It seeks an order directing the Clerks of the Senate and National Assembly to recover from the MPs’ salaries any allowance paid.