Anthony Mwangi @PeopleDailyKe The protracted supremacy battle between the two Houses of Parliament boomeranged yet again after the National Assembly threatened to move  to court to seek interpretation of the Constitution on money bills. This dispute has arisen after a continued disagreement since the two Houses came up with different figures for sharing of allocations to counties. In a motion filed by the National Assembly Leaders of Majority and Minority Aden Duale and John Mbadi (pictured), respectively, titled ‘the mandate of the National Assembly within the bicameral setup’, MPs  are accusing their Senate counterparts of usurping their roles. “They have started the war and they should be ready to face us in court,” said Duale after giving the notice of motion. The motion states that whereas the Constitution provides that a bill not concerning county governments is considered only in the National Assembly, the Senate has since proceeded to pass bills, whose mandate lies in the purview of the National Assembly. End impasse “The Speaker has and continues to actively engage his Senate counterpart on the establishment of an appropriate framework for jointly resolving any question as to whether a bill concerns county governments as and when the question arises,” reads the motion in part. This comes days after the Senate stated its intentions to seek legal address on the impasse, which has resulted in stalling of the passage of the Division of Revenue Bill, 2019. The turf battle has persisted despite Deputy President William Ruto having met with officials from the National Treasury, the Commission on Revenue Allocation (CRA), Controller of Budget, National Assembly Budget office and Parliament leadership in a bid to end the stalemate. The looming legal battle has roped in the Council of Governors, which is offering its support in resolving the matter. In what is shaping up to be a battle to watch, some senators— who are practising advocates— have accepted to provide pro bono services and prosecute a matter they say has undermined the Senate.