Addis Ababa, Monday The suspected ringleader of Saturday’s failed coup attempt in Ethiopia’s Amhara region has been shot dead by police, state media report. Brig-Gen Asaminew Tsige was killed on the outskirts of Amhara’s capital, Bahir Dar, the reports added. Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed’s office had named Asaminew as the chief suspect in an “attempted coup” in Amhara that left the region’s governor, top adviser and attorney general dead on Saturday. A few hours later in what the government said appeared to be a co-ordinated attack, the army chief Seare Mekonnen was killed by his bodyguard. However details of links between the two attacks and their ultimate motive have not been made clear. Ethiopia’s army chief Gen Seare Mekonnen was killed while trying to foil the coup, the government said. Six people, including the bodyguard who killed the army chief, are now known to have died in the unrest. Flags are flying at half-mast after the federal government declared a day of mourning to mark the deaths. Abiy  has urged Ethiopians to unite against “evil” forces set on dividing the country. Close allies Both Seare and Amhara governor Ambachew Mekonnen, who was also killed, were seen as close allies of the prime minister. A heavy contingent of pro-government forces has been deployed in Amhara’s capital, Bahir Dar, and the federal capital, Addis Ababa.  The Internet has been shut across the country, days after services resumed following an unexplained blackout of more than a week. The attorney general of Amhara state, Migbaru Kebede, died of gunshot injuries from the attack on Monday, state broadcaster EBC reported. The unrest has delivered another major challenge for Abiy, who has embarked on a series of reforms in a bid to open up the authoritarian state which have unleashed ethnic tensions and bitter political rivalries. The attacks, whose exact motives remain unclear, began on Saturday afternoon when gunmen attacked a meeting of top officials in Amhara, the second-largest of Ethiopia’s nine autonomous states. – Agencies Mekonnen, who was an ally of Abiy’s, as well as his adviser was killed, while Migbaru succumbed to his wounds on Monday. A few hours later in an upmarket suburb of the capital Addis Ababa army chief Seare Mekonnen, who was co-ordinating the response to the unrest in Amhara, was shot dead by his bodyguard. A visiting general was also killed. -Agencies