Lewis Njoka @LewisNjoka Kenya has edged closer to commercial petroleum production after it signed a deal for development of a crude oil refinery in Turkana and construction of a pipeline from Lokichar to Lamu. The Heads of Term agreement signed yesterday between the government and its joint venture partners — Tullow Oil, Total and Africa Oil Corporation — was for discoveries in in Blocks 10 BB and 13T in South Lokichar Basin. In the deal, a refinery that can processes 60,000 to 80,000 barrels of oil per day will be constructed and the partners can now source funds for construction of the pipeline. Significant milestone Speaking during the signing of the pact in Nairobi, Petroleum and Mining Cabinet secretary John Munyes termed the development a significant milestone towards Kenya becoming a major oil exporter by 2022. “The agreement provides a framework and commercial certainty required to move ahead with negotiating upstream and midstream long form agreements ahead of the Final Investment Decision (FID),” Said Munyes. The agreement, which took 15 months to negotiate, now paves way for sourcing Sh300 billion for the project from next month. “The signing of the Heads of Terms is a major milestone in the commercialisation of Kenya’s first oil development. Project Oil Kenya is expected to be the largest-ever private sector investment in Kenya and is a major step forward towards delivering FID for the project,” said Tullow Executive Vice President, Mark Macfarlane. Munyes said the agreement takes a phased approach which will enable Kenya to attain an early FID, take advantage of the current low-cost environment for both the field and infrastructure development and provide the best opportunity to deliver First Oil. “The ministry of finance has given incentives such as tax cuts to fast track the process,” Munyes said. So far, 150,000 barrels of oil have been drilled in the early oil project and the joint partners plan to flag off the first 200,000 barrels from the project this August to test the market’s response. Acquiring land Meanwhile, the government has embarked on acquiring land that will be used in the next phases of the oil exploration and is in talks with the seven counties that will be involved. Munyes said explorations will be conducted in Lamu, Anza, Mandera, and Tertiary Rift sedimentary basins. He pointed out that mineral and petroleum resources had the potential to become Kenya’s biggest foreign exchange earner, hence, were part of the enablers of the Big Four agenda.