Graduates from the National Super League (NSL) Wazito and Kisumu All Stars are fully immersed into preparations for the 2019/20 SportPesa Premier League season that will kick off on August 30. Top on both clubs’ agenda is staying up. Wazito will mark their return to the top flight with a home match against inconsistent Nzoia Sugar in Machakos while Kisumu All Stars are home to Ulinzi Stars. Both Wazito and All Stars have taken drastic steps to ensure successful campaigns next season. Wazito have perpetuated their NSL policy of throwing money at their problems, luring top talents with huge amounts. The likes of Sony Sugar’s Derrick Otanga opted out of a potentially career-changing deal at Gor Mahia in favour of Wazito’s money. After agitating for a move to K’Ogalo the entire season, Otanga succumbed to the allure of a Sh1.5 million signing on fee from Wazito which was half of what Gor tabled. Wazito have also acquired highly-rated goalkeeper Kevin Omondi from Sony and have tabled Sh4 million for Harun Shakava to ditch Gor with Whyvonne Isuza of AFC Leopards also on their radar. Club sporting director Solomon Alubala also confirmed that the club will maintain its technical bench led by Stanley Okumbi and Fred Ambani. “Okumbi is a top coach who has handled Harambee Stars and Mathare United and we do not see the need to change. We believe his experience alongside Ambani will help us achieve our objectives,” Alubala told People Sport yesterday. Unlike Wazito, All Stars’ agenda is to retain top-flight status come May 2020 and to achieve that, they have brought in one of the most experienced coaches in Henry Omino. The 68-year-old will serve as head coach, displacing Francis Oduor, who led the team to promotion. Oduor’s lack of a CAF Level B Licence, a requirement for all top-flight coaches, put paid to his ambitions will now play second fiddle to Omino. “This is a job that I know very well and will give it my very best. With my presence in the technical area, there are teams that are already fretting. But just like everything else that is good a lot of hard work must be put in,” said Omino.