Irene Githinji and Zaddock Angira @PeopleDailyKe Starehe Member of Parliament Charles Njagua, popularly known as Jaguar, was arrested yesterday at Parliament Buildings over alleged xenophobic remarks that have caused a diplomatic spat between Kenya and neigbouring Tanzania. The legislator, who had for hours dodged arrest by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) for threatening to kick out foreign traders from markets within his constituency, was by last evening still in police custody. He is expected to be charged today with incitement to violence and disobedience of the law. If convicted, he faces up to five years in jail. Yesterday, detectives from the DCI’s Special Crime Prevention Unit (SCPU), who had been tracking him down since Tuesday night, pounced on him at around 11am as he drove to Parliament in a Toyota Probox. He was taken to the Nairobi region DCI offices for grilling. The youthful, first time MP was arrested few hours after the government assured investors of their security and distanced itself and the State from the lawmaker’s remarks that drew protests from Tanzania, which felt its citizens were being targeted. While visiting traders along Kirinyaga Road on Monday, Jaguar condemned foreigners from running businesses in Nairobi. “If you assess our markets, Ugandans and Tanzanians have taken over our businesses. Now we are saying enough is enough. If a 24-hour ultimatum is not enough for them to be deported, we will remove them and we’ll beat them up and we will not fear anyone,” he said. Dar-es-Salaam termed Jaguar’s statement as reckless and “unneighbourly” and summoned Kenyan High Commissioner Dan Kazungu to clarify the issue. In a statement, Foreign Affairs Cabinet Secretary Monica Juma regretted what she described as careless and inciting language against foreigners living and working in the country, saying the aggressive and ill-tempered language goes against the letter and spirit of Kenya’s hospitality ethos, as well as the progressive nature of the Constitution. She said laws that govern Kenya’s conduct as a member of the international community have been upheld and embraced over many decades. Free movement “The unfortunate exploitation of the freedom of free speech to dehumanise foreign communities and incite local constituents undermines the welcoming culture that Kenya is reputed for, and has to be condemned,” read the statement. “We wish to take this opportunity to reassure all foreign nationals living and working in Kenya of their personal safety and also offer a firm guarantee of the security of their investments in Kenya.” The ministry also said Kenya in turn expects that all her neighbours and the international community at large will continue to welcome Kenyans around the world, where their valuable contributions and entrepreneurial spirit continues to be a source of pride for all Kenyans. It further stated that established institutions that safeguard laws affirm Kenya’s belief in the importance of free movement of people, goods and services and ceaseless championing of the East African Community and the African Continental Free Trade Area is a living testament to this. Similarly, the ministry said President Uhuru Kenyatta has on several occasions affirmed Kenya’s openness and invited Africans and members of the international community to visit the country, partner with Kenyans and invest freely in the country. Separately, Government Spokesperson Col (rtd) Cyrus Oguna acknowledged having viewed the clip, which has been circulating on the social media. He said in the clip, Njagua is heard asking foreigners engaged in business in Starehe constituency to close their businesses and vacate the country, failure to which they will be forcefully evicted. “We wish to state that this is not the position of the Kenyan government and we denounce the comments carried in the video in the strongest terms possible. Such comments are unfortunate and have no place in today’s globalised environment,” he said in a statement. Diplomatic tensions “The government treats as serious the contents of the video and has instituted mitigating measures. The Government reassures all foreigners in Kenya and those interested to come and invest in the country of their personal security and that of their properties,” added Oguna. Clearly irked by Njagua’s comments, Tanzania’s Parliament took about 20 minutes to condemn what they described as inciting remarks that could cause diplomatic tension between the two countries if not keenly looked into. They demanded a way forward from the Kenyan government. Tanzania Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa issued a statement on the floor of the House saying that the government has taken action and called for calm as diplomatic engagements continue. “We call for patience and urge all East African countries to be keen in its activities and utterances so as not to break the long-standing relations,” said Majaliwa.