Lewis Njoka @PeopleDailyKe Most Kenyans are using household items as security for loans from commercial banks, signalling a shift from immovable assets, Kenya Bankers Association has said in a report. As of May 2017, Kenyans used 198,873 household items as collateral to acquire loans from banks  compared to only 5,262 immovable assets used over the same period, The Banking Industry Shared Value Report, 2019, shows. By the end of January 2019, 183,487 loans worth Sh3.65 trillion were registered on the moveable assets registry. The report released on Friday attributes this shift to the enactment of the Movable Property Security Rights Acts, 2017, which enables banks lend to individuals and small and micro enterprises (SMEs), using assets unrelated to land such as household goods, livestock and even stock in stores. Borrowers are required to register their security or collateral on the e-Citizen registry which the banks then use to assess one’s risk profile and determine what loan facility he qualifies for. “The registry is a departure from the tradition of using immovable assets, primarily land and buildings, that are beyond the reach of most Kenyans,” the report reads in part. Over 20 local banks were surveyed for the report. Other financial institutions other than banks are also using the registry to give credit to their borrowers. KCB Bank, Kenya Women Finance Trust, Equity Bank and Co-operative Bank top the  list of financial institutions accepting household items as collateral in exchange for loans. Motor vehicles Motor vehicles are the second most popular asset used as collateral by 86,010 Kenyans followed by furniture at 84,626. Using inventory as security requires the highest number of collaterals per loan at 26.7 entries with Equity Bank being the top user of this kind of collateral. Using securities requires the least number of collaterals per loan at 1.3 entries with KCB being the top user of this collateral. The least popular form of collateral used in acquiring loans is negotiable instruments with CBA Bank leading in accepting this form of asset.