A law that was aimed at taming rogue insurance brokers could ironically put brokerage firms and agents out of business rendering thousands jobless. This reality now beckons after Parliament failed to overturn a presidential memorandum seeking to have premiums paid directly to underwriters. An amendment by the Finance Committee seeking to have the presidential memorandum amended was defeated meaning that the memo carried the day. The new development means customers will bypass brokers when the law is assented by the President. There was uproar in the House as MPs accused the Presidency of having usurped the powers of the Legislature. In his memorandum stating reasons that led to his refusal to assent to the Insurance (Amendment) Bill, 2018, President Uhuru Kenyatta stated that the Act, which provides for the advance payment of premiums, negates the principle of cash and carry and is likely to aggravate the problem of the delayed settlement of claims. Prompt payment Uhuru further explained that with the advancement in technology, it is now possible to pay premiums directly to insurers. “This will guarantee insurance companies financial stability and the prompt payment of claims to policyholders,” the President argued. Uhuru further explained that the requirement that intermediaries (brokers) can enter into a contract with insurers on the collection of premiums would prejudice the interests of policyholders who are not party to such contracts. He had said that the premium is the consideration of the insurance contract and, if not remitted, shall affect the validity of the contract. But the Finance Committee, through vice chairman Waihenya Ndirangu, termed the memorandum by the President on the bill as punitive that will kill the insurance sector. Killing industry “It is the position of the committee that for the underwriters’ business to succeed, they will have to work in tandem,  failure to which the industry will collapse,” Ndirangu said. Seme MP James Nyikal warned that the President had, by introducing the amendments, killed the insurance industry. “You don’t kill an industry to rectify a wrong, instead of doing so you introduce punitive measures to address the failures in the sector,” said Nyikal. Sakwa Bunyasi (Nambale) said the insurance industry should be allowed to regulate itself and come up with ways of addressing problems of remittances. But defending the President’s action, Leader of Majority in the National Assembly Aden Duale said the Head of State was trying to protect the sector. He, however, said  brokers who fail to pay premiums directly to the insurer were causing the failures witnessed in the industry.