High Court judge Joseph Sergon yesterday justified the Sh27 million compensation for defamation awarded to former Internal Security minister Chris Murungaru against former Ethics and Governance Permanent Secretary John Githongo. Sergon told the Judicial Service Commission that his May 2 decision in Murungaru’s favour was purely based on the law. “I considered the available evidence and the principles establishing liability and quantum,” Justice Sergon, who has served 18 years on the Bench, said during his interview for appointment as an appellate judge. He admitted during questioning by Commissioner Mohamed Warsame that he had taken over the defamation proceedings from High Court judge David Onyancha (now retired), who had disqualified himself, and proceeded to hear the case with the consent of all the parties. Defence Sergon denied he had deliberately limited Githongo’s defence hearing and ended up issuing an undeserving compensation package to the former minister comprising Sh20 million in general damages, Sh5 million exemplary damages and Sh2 million in special damages. Anglo Leasing During the hearing of the suit, Githongo admitted that President Mwai Kibaki never responded to his 36-page report exposing the alleged perpetrators of a scam involving 18 security-related Anglo Leasing contracts. Githongo had resigned on February 2, 2005 while on an official trip to London. He sent his dossier to Kibaki on November 22, 2005, long after he had quit the public service. The former PS had recalled that the special audit report by the Auditor-General dated April 10, 2006, relating to the controversial contracts, did not specifically identify Murungaru as a suspect in the alleged corrupt dealings. Sergon dismissed allegations made by legal practitioners and some members of the public of his incompetence, lack of professionalism, abuse of office, bias and lack of integrity. “All these complaints are made by people who have been aggrieved by my decisions, “ he said in answer to Commissioner Emily Ominde.