Starehe MP Charles Njagua, alias Jaguar, will remain behind bars for five more days for police to conclude investigations on his alleged xenophobic remarks. Senior resident magistrate Sinkiyian Tobiko allowed police to detain him for three working days (Friday, Monday and Tuesday) for them to secure witnesses whom, they say, will be interfered with if the MP is released on bond or bail. But she declined to allow 14 days, the police had sought, saying the prosecution did not adduce compelling reasons to hold him that long. Njagua has been in police custody since Wednesday after he was arrested leaving Parliament Buildings, and it means he will have to spend five days behind bars since the country’s courts do not operate at the weekend. Senior Prosecution counsel Duncan Ondimu told the court on Thursday that police needed to detain Njagua for 14 days to investigate remarks he made allegedly threatening to forcibly invade private businesses and attack foreigners living and residing in the country. “The team of investigators have already written to Communications Authority (CA), and is in the process of writing to Media Houses to provide the media clips which were used to record the inciting remarks made by the Respondent on the June 24, 2019,” Ondimu told the court. Tobiko heard that the team of investigators has already seized the MP’s  mobile phone, which is yet to be forensically examined. “To ensure that all the digital footprints of the respondent is obtained, it is important for him to be detained to enable detailed criminal inquiries and investigations be carried out,” said Ondimu. He argued that Njagua is a Member of Parliament and a person of influence and if released, he may interfere with the ongoing investigation, as witnesses will be from where the remarks were made. “Brief evidence so far gathered and credible intelligence so far received show that the respondent was planning to mobilise and organise group of gangs to invade private property and attack foreign nationals residing in the country,” argued Ondimu. The prosecution claimed the alleged inciting remarks have caused serious diplomatic challenges to the country and have placed Kenyans living in foreign countries at a great risk of being harmed or even killed. But Njagua’s lawyers Duncan Okatch and Charles Ongoto opposed the DPP’s application arguing that there was no one from the any embassy who had claimed about the diplomatic challenges as alleged by the prosecution. “The prosecution knows the charge they wish to charge him with, specifically but do not want to charge him. The suspect was arrested while still in Parliament, and did not resist arrest, he has duty to his constituents and court must balance the people he represents,” argued Okatch. The case will be mentioned on Tuesday.