Seth Mwaniki @PeopleDailyKe Investigations into the death of  the third Nyeri Governor Dr Wahome Gakuru kicked off afresh yesterday with revelations that his phone has not been traced two years later. The inquest is being heard by Nyeri Chief Magistrate Wendy Kagendo, who took over from Senior Resident Magistrate Pauline Amungala, after she was charged with the murder of lawyer husband Robert Chesang. First in the dock was Josphat Mwangi Maina, who allegedly served as Gakuru’s  aide until the  time of his death on November 7, 2017. During cross examination, Maina was put to task to explain what happened to Gakuru’s  phone with lead State Counsel Peter Mairanya questioning his version of what happened to the gadget which police have been unable  to trace to date. “Your Honour, after the accident which happened because of poor weather, I was only able to pick the deceased’s  jacket with his documents which I gave to his wife Catherine Gakuru,’’ said Maina. However, Mairanya wondered how it was  possible for Maina to pick the jacket only and not the phone. Not convinced by Maina’s answer,  lawyer Martha Waweru for Dhamana Africa, questioned the credibility of the witness, given the fact that he was the governor’s main security officer. Waweru pressed him to explain what happened to the phone considering he was able to retrieve the log book of the governor’s  vehicle which was in his jacket at the time of his death. The academic background of Maina was also put into question with the court being told that Maina dropped out of school in Standard Four. However, he said Gakuru  picked him as his body guard because of their close relationship which spanned close to 20 years. Gakuru’s  personal assistant Albert Gakuru said his boss had his phone with him at the time of his death and was even reading some messages  before the crash. Earlier, Maina had told the court that before Gakuru’s  death,  a group of activists claiming the  governor had sidelined them in employment had performed a ritual in  Mathira where they allegedly cursed him. Maina said they did not report the matter at the police station on the oathing ceremony. “Your Honour after the ritual, we went to a nearby church and prayed and put the issue aside. We never  reported to the authorities,” said Maina. Maina detailed the chronology of events from the day before the accident. Of grave concern to the parties involved was how a Nyeri-based politician Wachira Keen appeared at the scene of the accident at Makenji area on Kenol- Kabati road shortly after it had happened. “He suddenly appeared at the scene of the accident moments after it had occurred. In fact, we used  his personal vehicle to take the  Governor to Thika Level Five Hospital,” he said. The inquest was started afresh upon request by Dhamana Africa, an organisation that the late governor served as a chief executive officer. Hearing continues.