PSCU @PeopleDailyKe First Lady Margaret Kenyatta yesterday held talks with Queen Mathilde of Belgium on how to increase access to education and healthcare services, especially for disadvantaged communities. The First Lady shared with the Belgian Queen her Beyond Zero vision of a healthy Kenya, when  the latter paid her a courtesy call at State House, Nairobi. Margaret said the initiative has seen the distribution of 52 fully equipped mobile clinics across the country as part of ongoing concerted efforts to increase access to healthcare services. “We have now embarked on an outreach programme through our Beyond Zero Medical Safaris, where people receive free medical care for a wide range of diseases at medical camps,” she said. Explore ways The First Lady said she is spearheading efforts to ensure expectant mothers have increased access to healthcare services from skilled health workers to eliminate cases of fistula. On education, Margaret briefed the Queen on the Pupils Reward Scheme; a unique mentorship project initiated by President Uhuru Kenyatta to motivate pupils from across the country to work hard in their studies and instil in them a sense of patriotism, discipline and direction. Queen Mathilde, who is in the country for a three-day visit on a Unicef mission to raise awareness on education issues and children in difficult circumstances, told the First Lady of her visit to Kakuma in Turkana county where she toured the Kakuma refugee camp, Kalobeyei Early Childhood Centre and Kalobeyei Primary School set up by Unicef and UNHCR. The Queen, who is the Honourary chair of Unicef Belgium, said she also visited the Dagoretti Amref Child Development Centre and the Korogocho informal settlement in Nairobi where she had a first-hand experience of the education needs of children from disadvantaged backgrounds. Speaking during the meeting, Unicef Kenya representative Maniza Zaman commended the First Lady for championing children and maternal healthcare in the country. She said her organisation is exploring ways of working with Beyond Zero initiative, saying health and education initiatives complement each other. At a separate function at State House, Nairobi, Chinese Ambassador to Kenya Wu Peng assured the First Lady of his embassy’s continued support for the Beyond Zero initiative. Wu said he is exploring a partnership that will see Kenyan doctors and nurses trained in China. The envoy offered to send Chinese medical teams to participate in Beyond Zero Medical Safaris, saying his government also fully supports Kenya’s Big Four agenda. The First Lady thanked China for supporting Beyond Zero initiative, especially through the provision of office equipment.