Amos Abuga @PeopleSport11 Continental Cup winner Emmanuel Korir has made winning gold in 800m in the 2019 World Championships in Doha, Qatar from September 28 to October 6 his priority this year. Speaking after making Team Kenya for the All Africa Games set to run from August 22 to September 3 in Rabat, Morocco, the US-based runner believes he has come of age to claim a world title, two years after reaching the finals in London, but failing to make the podium. “A lot has changed since failing to win a medal from the London championships two years ago,” says the athlete who was among the star attractions during the three-day African Games trials last weekend. “I was reading on the sites that I was doubtful for the trials. Honestly, I don’t know where that came from. I want to be ready for Doha and I will achieve that by engaging in as much training as possible,” said Korir, who is ranked as one of the sixth fastest athletes in 800m. Injury problems Possessing a personal best of 1:42.05, the runner who picked his first ever championship gold medal during the Africa Senior Athletics Championship in Asaba, Nigeria last year, before winning the Continental Cup a month later, will be using the African Games as part of his preparations for Doha. “Part of my 2017 and 2018 season was affected by injury and running in that phase was very tough. I am happy that is now behind me,” said the athlete who is seen as the heir apparent to two-time Olympic champion and word record holder David Rudisha. Coached by a former Olympic champion in Paul Ereng, Korir is also working on a winning strategy, banishing his tactic of running from behind. “Some say that has been my biggest undoing and I am working on that,” added the runner, who also features in the 400m as well as 4x400m relay. “I could have been a different athlete had I not moved to the US. It is an opportunity I do not take for granted. I know there are so many athletes who cannot move their careers to the next level because of lack of training facilities. It is an area that has hampered the growth of sprints in the country,” said the runner, who hails from Elgeyo Marakwet county.