Seth Onyango @SethManex Amani National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi has called for allocation of more resources to agencies in the criminal justice system to enable them fight corruption more effectively. The former Vice President also called on President Uhuru Kenyatta to be more resolute in his anti-corruption crusade, arguing his pronouncements must match the actions of his administration. He said that lack of sufficient funds was affecting the agencies’ efforts to investigate and prosecute perpetrators of corruption, which, he said, was bleeding the economy. Mudavadi asked the Jubilee Party to use its numerical strength in Parliament to allocate sufficient funds to the anti-graft agencies. House majority “Jubilee has the majority in Parliament. It does not need Nasa, Wiper or ANC… it has the numbers to allocate sufficient resources to these institutions,” he said. Speaking at the State of the Nation talk show on K24 TV on Sunday night, Mudavadi challenged President Uhuru Kenyatta to do more than just pay lip service to the war on corruption. “He must do more to support institutions that fight corruption,” he said. In the financial year 2019/20, the National Treasury allocated a total of 345.9 billion for security agencies and the fight against corruption, of which the Directorate of Criminal Investigations got Sh7.1 billion. Asset Recovery Authority was allocated Sh50 million and the Financial Reporting Centre was given Sh548.8 million. Treasury allocated Sh2.9 billion to the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) and Sh3 billion to the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions (ODDP). Impeachment But Mudavadi said the allocations were insufficient and the agencies need more resources if the war against corruption is to be won. He said that while the planned phasing out of the old Sh1,000 banknotes was a move in the right direction, the former Finance minister insisted the decision alone would not contain corruption. “We need to see people in handcuffs,” he said. Mudavadi said that though the Handshake between Uhuru and Opposition leader Raila Odinga had ended the  2017 post-election anxieties and brought about tranquillity, it could turn out to be a lull before a storm if the 2022 succession politics is not handled properly. “It depends on how the debate is managed,” he said. Mudavadi is on record calling on MPs to impeach Cabinet Secretaries whose dockets have been dented by allegations of graft and mismanagement. “If MPs still share the citizens’ concerns on taxation, they have the option of averting future problems by impeaching those who  preside over mismanagement of the economy and impoverish Kenyans thorough misuse of taxes,” he said.