 The Chinese embassy in Tanzania on Monday announced the awarding of Chinese government scholarships to 259 Tanzanian students for 2019. Wang Ke, the Chinese Ambassador to Tanzania, said the scholarships are awarded by the Chinese government and universities to the Tanzanian students through the Tanzanian Ministry of Education, Science and Technology. She urged the students to study hard in Chinese universities and acquire skills and knowledge that will be applied to the development of Tanzania upon completion of their studies. “I hope they will become the backbone for Tanzania’s economic and social development, as well as Tanzania’s industrialization,” said Wang. Wang encouraged Tanzanian students studying in China to witness China’s development process and learn from the county’s development experience. In addition, the scholarships will enhance the mutual understanding and friendship between the peoples of China and Tanzania, she said. Wang said the cooperation in education has been deepened in recent years. Up to now, China has provided to Tanzania about 1,900 scholarships, and vocational training programs for some 6,100 Tanzanians to study in China. Joyce Ndalichako, the Minister for Education, Science and Technology, thanked the Chinese government and Chinese universities for doubling the number of scholarships from 120 in 2018 to 259 in 2019. Ndalichako said the scholarships were crucial to Tanzania’s development as Tanzania required higher skilled experts in pushing forward the industrialization agenda. She assured China of Tanzania’s determination to continue cherishing the cordial relations between the two friendly countries. Ndalichako urged the recipients of the scholarships to be goodwill ambassadors of Tanzania by showing outstanding performance and hard working. She also urged them to embrace China’s advanced technology for the benefit of Tanzania. Sania Kasyanjur, speaking on behalf of the students, promised to work hard in their studies and abide by Chinese laws and regulations in the universities. “We thank the Chinese government for giving us this lifetime opportunity,” said Kasyanjur. (Xinhua)