London, Sunday @PeopleSports11 Liverpool had been here before. Craven Cottage. The ball on the penalty spot. Nerves frayed in the away end, the Reds’ title bid under threat. Buried. James Milner’s intervention here may not have been as late as Steven Gerrard’s five years ago, but it could be the most important he’s made in a red shirt. It gave Liverpool a victory they looked to have thrown and sent Jurgen Klopp’s men back to the top of the Premier League in the process. But if Milner was the match-winner, it was who lit up the gloomy West London sky. He’s the most softly-spoken member of the Liverpool dressing room, but there’s nothing quiet about Sadio Mane right now. The Senegal star is the Reds’ form player, and his hot streak continued. His first-half strike set Liverpool on their way, and it was he who won the penalty from which Milner struck the decisive blow after Ryan Babel, the former Reds striker, had nicked an equaliser for Fulham, benefiting from a catalogue of errors from Milner, Virgil van Dijk and Alisson Becker. At that point, it looked like the dream was slipping away, Liverpool careless and aimless. Then came a moment of sharpness from Mane, a moment of madness from Sergio Rico. The Fulham goalkeeper’s grab cost his side dear. Manchester City too. Milner, the former City man, kept his nerve from the spot. 20th goal Mane’s run of form is well-timed. While Liverpool’s No11, Mohamed Salah, endures a dry spell, their No.10 is flying. His goal was his 20th of the campaign, matching his tally for the whole of last season, and his 17th in the league. He’s now level with Salah on both counts. He has 11 in his last 11 appearances. Mane had smiled when asked after Wednesday’s Champions League win over Bayern Munich whether he feels “under-rated” when compared to the likes of Salah. “I like the question,” he grinned, though he refused to answer it. He’d rather do his talking on the pitch. Good idea. In a week of stellar Champions League performances, Mane’s deserved to sit comfortably alongside those of Lionel Messi or Cristiano Ronaldo, big displays on the big stage. -GOAL