In 1961, then United States President John F. Kennedy signed an Executive Order that created affirmative action as a policy that required government employees not to discriminate against employees or applicants of employment and that all be treated equally regardless of gender, creed, race, sex, colour and national origin. What he sought to achieve with affirmative action was a better balance for the people of the United States. Ever since then, many nations and organisations have used affirmative action as a policy to bring in a better balance within their communities. Affirmative action is a policy favouring individuals or groups of persons or communities that have been previously discriminated against from accessing opportunities. It is intended to promote opportunities of defined minority and marginalised groups or peoples within a society. It’s on this basis that the Constitution of Kenya 2010 was developed and county governments created to give a balance for better development and the Bill of Rights Chapter included in the Constitution. In article 27, the Constitution of Kenya speaks to Equality and Freedom from Discrimination. It states (1): “Every person is equal before the law and has the right to equal protection and equal benefit from the law.” It states further in (3): “Women and men have the right to equal treatment including the right to equal opportunities in political, economic, cultural and social spheres.” All this reiterate that nobody should be discriminated against and where there are challenges, the Parliament of Kenya is to enact laws to ensure that equality is the foundation of our interaction. As the world marks the 44th anniversary of the International Women’s Day, Kenyan women still face challenges. Having been discriminated right from childhood, many women, who were bright in school failed to get higher education for the mere fact that such opportunity was reserved for the boy. The theme for the 2019 International Women’s Day is Balance For Better and this is enhanced further by the Women in News Programme through #BalanceOurNews.  A home, community, county, society or country can only develop if men and women are given equal access to opportunities. Since Kenya attained independence, it took more than 20 years for the first female cabinet minister to be appointed. Nyiva Mwendwa was made a cabinet minister in 1995 to lead the Kenyan delegation to the fourth UN Women Conference in Beijing, China. Since then it has been a staggered process in having women hold cabinet positions. It was not until after promulgation of the Constitution in 2010 when women saw a remarkable change in appointments because law and policy dictated it. President Uhuru Kenyatta appointed six women among 18 cabinet ministers. However,  a 2017 reshuffle, some women were dropped in favour of men, contrary to the dictates of the Constitution that not more than two-thirds of the same gender will be appointed or elected to positions. The loss in cabinet positions has snowballed to other ranks such as chief administrative secretaries, principle secretaries and secretaries. For instance, new positions of chief administrative secretaries created with the 2017 General Election, featured only two women out of the 10 positions. The Cabinet has six women out of 16 and permanent secretaries have only nine women out of 31. Those, who have seen women in leadership appreciate the balance that they bring forth and counties, that have governors who are female and male deputies or male governors and female deputies are a good illustration of balance for better. For more women to get recognition of their value in leadership and decision making, it’s important that news making organs allow for a balance of voices in their content. The balance of opinion and skills is the only way of giving visibility to women and appreciating their capability in various spheres. Sustainable development for any nation cannot be achieved if over half of its population is ignored, their voice not heard or they are blatantly discriminated against.  Jane Godia is an editor at The African Woman and Child Feature Service.