On-song Zambia-based striker Jesse Were was once again dropped as Harambee Stars left for Ghana yesterday for the final Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) Group F qualifying match against hosts Black Stars in Accra tomorrow. Jesse had been called up to replace injured Micheal Olunga who plies his trade for Kashiwa Reysol of Japan. The omission of Were in the Accra-bound squad has raised questions on the pedigree of the Zesco United’s goal-scoring machine in Stars even as football fans have increasingly been vouching for his inclusion in the national team. For the last couple of years, Were who used to score more goals than the highly rated Olunga while featuring in the local league, has been summoned for Harambee Stars duty by different coaches just to be dropped in the last minute. This time, coach Migne preferred the services of Kakamega Homeboyz striker Allan Wanga together with Masoud Juma and Piston Mutamba who have six caps apiece, to the services of Were who has been Zesco’s top scorer for the last three season. Another surprise exclusion was pacy striker Nicholas Kipkirui who has been a revelation for Gor Mahia ever since he joined the Sportpesa Premier League (SPL) reigning champions from Zoo Kericho this season. In contrast, swash-buckling defender David “Calabar” Owino and combative midfielder Teddy Akumu who also play in the Zambian top-tier league have been named in Harambee Stars’ squad that will take on the Ghanaians. Despite the fact that the match is a dead rubber, it will be pay-back time as Black Stars will be going flat out to avenge the 1-0 defeat they suffered at the hands of Harambee Stars in Nairobi last September 8. Despite having already qualified for the continental showpiece alongside Ghana, Stars will be looking to finish on a high in the West African country that is reputed as one of the dreariest hunting grounds in Africa. In the meantime, Migné has taken pressure off the players’ shoulders, and has expressed optimism that they will look to give a good account of themselves ahead of AFCON finals slated for Egypt in June.