It has been a hot season and a sweaty one for that matter. In fact, sweating is a normal reaction to heat: it cools the body and flushes out toxins. However, excessive and smelly sweat can make you uncomfortable and signals that something may be wrong. Here is what your perspiration could be communicating 1. You are stressed Stress and anxiety not only negatively affect your body, but they also manifest themselves in the form of sweat. This type of sweat is also extra smelly because it contains fat and protein mixed with skin bacteria. 2. It may point to side effects of medication This is nothing to be scared of — sweating is a common side effect of a variety of medications such as antibiotics, blood pressure medicine, and psychiatric drugs. You can find the information about side effects in the paper annotation to your meds. 3. You have a thyroid problem (hyperthyroidism) Hyperthyroidism is a condition in which the thyroid gland becomes hyperactive and starts producing too much thyroid hormone. When this happens, the processes in the body are sped up and among many symptoms, you may feel yourself getting nervous or anxious and you might experience weight loss and excessive sweating. When this happens, go to the doctor to get your thyroid examined. 4. Your blood sugar is low Though excessive sweating can be caused by different things, sometimes it can be caused by hypoglycemia, which is a low-level of blood sugar. Such sweating comes regardless of how warm the temperature in the room or outside may be. Together with this, a person with low blood sugar might also experience ravenous hunger, anxiety, dizziness, light-headedness, and vision problems. 5. You have hyperhidrosis Excessive sweating on just one area on the body like your neck, the underarms, palms, or soles of the feet is called hyperhidrosis. These areas are affected the most because of their high concentration of sweat glands. It’s not life-threatening, but uncomfortable and can cause embarrassment. Hyperhidrosis is sometimes followed by irritating and painful skin problems and anxiety. If you notice sweat stains on your T-shirt around your armpits or if your palms are always wet, it’s better to consult a doctor. 6. You have reached menopause It feels like an intense heat in your chest that follows up to your head accompanied by excessive sweat. This happens due to upcoming menopause, or perimenopause. Sweating, dysfunction of the menstrual cycle, migraines, hot flashes, and chills happen as a result of changing oestrogen levels. 7. A fever of unknown origin (FUO) A Fever of Unknown (FUO) origin is a fever of at least 101° F (38.3° C) that happens usually without explanation and lasts for a long time (three weeks or so). There are four types of FUO: classical (affects healthy people), nosocomial (as a result of hospitalisation), immune-deficient (occurs in people with compromised immune systems), and HIV-associated. Typical symptoms of a fever include a high temperature, sweating, chills, and headaches. If you suffer from these, you should contact your doctor. 8. There’s a baby on board Sweaty glow is definitely a thing. If you notice that you’ve started to sweat more, and have seen other signs that you might be pregnant, including missed periods or swollen breasts, it might be time to get a pregnancy test. Sweating is particularly common during the first trimester of pregnancy, or the first three months. It’s part of the body’s adaptation to new temperature demands as it fuels the growth of the pregnancy. 9. You are obese Obesity is a disorder characterised by the presence of a big amount of body fat. Genetics, inactivity, an unhealthy diet, eating habits, certain medications, and lack of sleep can all cause obesity and can lead to further health problems. Obesity causes secondary hyperhidrosis (hyperhidrosis that is not a primary cause, but can signify another underlying condition) and makes life uncomfortable. 10. You need more calcium Salty sweat is your body’s request for more sodium. If your sweat stings your eyes, burns in an open cut, leaves a gritty feeling on your skin, or produces white streaks on your face or clothes, it could be your cue to amp up your sodium intake.