Two MPs on Friday clashed over the proposed legislation to regulate churches in the country. Molo legislator Kimani Kuria and his Bahati colleague Kimani Ngunjiri differed over the draft legislation by Muturi Kigano (Kangema) that seeks to streamline church regulations, enhance accountability and promote professionalism in evangelism. Ngunjiri vowed to oppose the law meant to tame rogue preachers and churches. He said churches were a reflection of the society and people should be left to worship God in the manner they want. “A church usually starts with family members and their neighbours. Many Kenyans will appreciate if MPs allow Kenyans to exercise freedom of worship because it is their constitutional right,” he said. In the proposal, Kigano argued the current church registration process was being abused by unscrupulous people, who were opening churches to make quick money and enrich themselves. Kuria said it was an undeniable fact that all is not well in the House of God and religious quacks, criminals and conmen have invaded the holy place. “In as much as we want to exercise the freedom of worship, matters of values, ethics and morality cannot be swept under the carpet. Many of these characters no longer preach salvation and ways to reach God but are preoccupied with the prosperity gospel that exploits their followers,” he said. The two leaders were speaking at a forum in Nakuru that was organised by religious leaders and moderated by Governor Lee Kinyanjui. Members of Parliament from the county including Woman Representative Elisabeth Chelule were present. The Governor said the church risked losing moral authority to speak on societal ills as some of its leaders did not vet or question donations from suspicious characters. “We want this culture of churches accepting gifts and money from corrupt characters to stop. They should support President Uhuru Kenyatta’s fight against entrenched graft. The donations they receive are mostly funds diverted from hospitals, State projects and coffers,” he said. Ngunjiri said Kenya is a secular country that respects separation of the State from religious activities.