Being successful in the entertainment industry is difficult for everyone. But women have a few unique mountains to climb. And even as we marked International Women’s Day last week, Alfayo Onyango had a chat with female artistes who reveal the challenges they face in this field Whether it’s entertaining us, putting together shows that push the Kenyan narrative further, or organising conferences that educate Kenyan art enthusiasts on the importance of supporting Kenyan artistes, women are letting it known they are here to work. From honours bagged on huge publications such as New York’s Okay
Africa, mentioning some women is not enough a reward for the strides they have taken to ensure a healthy and progressive music industry. “Kenyan female artistes are breaking the monotony of their Nigerian counterparts such as Yemi Alade or Tiwa Savage. The lens should be on the 254 more than ever because they are bringing fresh vibes to a competitive game,’’ DJ and music producer from Ever Blazing Production House, Bingi says.  However, it has not been a walk in the park to succeed in an industry that is not free of gender stereotypes. Sexual harassment “In this era we still go through sexual harassment,” Apple Music and Okay Africa music curator Camille Storm says. “It sucks when you’re just trying to do your job, but the people you’re working with keeps on hitting on you all the time when you’re just trying to be professional,” she adds. However, her advice to those planning to join the industry is to brave themselves for the battle. “If it’s your passion, just go for it. You will face all kinds of challenges and you will have to be okay with sometimes being the only woman in the room. It’s a tough industry, but if you keep working hard and proving yourself, you’ll get a hang of things,” she says. “I remember starting out and that was the most crazy period of my career. But I had been forewarned, so I knew what to expect. With the guidance I had, I just went on with my business and stuck to my guns. I picked my battles wisely and I can say it’s worked out for me so far,’’ Rosalie Akinyi, aka Rosa, a UK-based Kenyan artiste says. Underestimation Artists, however, cannot exist without publicists— the people that ensure the artiste’s music and brand is visible and audible to the audience. Anyiko Owoko and Camille have faired well in this industry. Anyiko has a vast experience in the field. She has won awards such as Africa’s Most Influential 100 women, and has been responsible for the expedited rise of arguably Kenya’s most successful band Sauti Sol. Anyiko also set up a PR firm, Anyiko Public Relations that provides a bridge for artistes to fairly promote their music through her organisation. Camille on the other hand has opted for a different route. With her open music martyrdom, she has been privileged to be selected by global music streaming site, Apple Music and New York’s Okay Africa to be a journalist as well as a content curator for both brands. She is only 23, and with a PR firm to her right, she does not feel intimidated by any gender inequality in the music industry. “Underestimation is real. The industry is male-dominated of course, and it’s not unusual to work with people who do not believe you are cut for the job because you are a woman. It is just something you have to get past, especially in the early stages,” Camille says. Questioned sexuality Sheila Kwamboka elevated to fame when she participated in the third edition of reality show Big Brother Africa. The former Miss Kenya Tourism has never looked back. The TV and radio personality began the now annual industry Nite event that seeks to promote upcoming talent as well as merge them with legends. And it has proved a success reaching its fifth this year. But it wasn’t all rosy in her journey though. Sheila’s appeal was pegged on a tomboy aesthetic and the general audience even criticised her about her sexuality based on her choices of dressing. Stiff competition And can you imagine a DJ playing Kenyan music and not including Mayonde’s music in the playlist? Almost unfathomable. But it has not been easy for her. “There are people who want more from you than you can give them. There are other issues such as competition and appreciating the fact that Kenyans have a taste for foreign things. Fighting for my space in the industry are some issues I face as a woman,’ Mayonde shares with Spice.