AMOS ABUGA Girls’ handball powerhouse Senior Chief Musa Nyandusi (SCMN) Kegati Girls are just one win from all but clinching their fourth straight Kisii County Secondary School Sports Association (KCSSSA)  handball title after thrashing Kereri Girls 21-9 in an entertaining semi-final played Friday at Tendere High School. Kegati will then take on Sengera SDA Girls Saturday in the final as the 2019 Term One County Games comes to an end at Tendere and Sameta High Schools respectively with Kegati Girls head coach Betty Onsongo exuding confidence of clinching their fourth straight title. “I congratulate my girls for the job well done but they should not relax. What’s remaining is bigger than what we have achieved. We are hungry for the fourth title and we are stopping at nothing. We want it badly and my girls are ready to go all the way and win it for the fourth year running,” said coach Onsongo of Kegati Girls. Sengera SDA Girls on their side, knocked out Itare Girls 13-9 in a closely contested other semi-final to sail through to the finals to face invincibles Kegati Girls. In the boys category, the battle for the new champion is between Tabaka Boys and Nyagoto who meet in the final today as defending champions Nyamagwa Boys were knocked out in the preliminaries. Tabaka were too good for Kisii School match as they won the semi-final easily, 25-8 while Nyagoto dug deep to beat Nyabisase Boys 17-14 in an end to end other semi-final. In hockey, Kisii School and Kereri Girls successfully defended their respective titles and proceeded to Nyanza regionals games slated to take place in Homa Bay County from March 16 to 20. In a competitive four girl’s teams round robin competition, Kereri Girls edged out Sengera SDA Girls on goal difference to retain their after tying on four points while Kisii School cruised to victory by winning all of their three matches to amass nine maximum points to retain their title in expense of runners-up Cardinal Otunga High School (COHS) Mosocho who collected six points in the five teams competition.