Peter Sagini and Alfred Wanjohi @Peoplesports11 Former Kenya and Africa sprints champion John Anzrah is free from earlier reported doping allegations.  Anzrah, now a sprints coach was expelled from Rio Olympics in Brazil back, defended himself citing that he only wanted a free meal. “My lowest moment in the sporting career was during 2016 Olympics in Rio where I was allegedly accused of giving a sample of an athlete, but in the true picture of what happened is that I got an accreditation from the player to get a free meal,” Anzrah told PD Sports. The sprint legend strongly believes he did nothing wrong and his accusers took advantage of a ‘small misunderstanding’ to send him home.  In an interview, he said that upon arrival in Kenya he was presented to the Kenya Sports Disputes Tribunal where he defended himself against the allegations, and later the case was thrown out. “I was told that I was to be arrested and charged upon arrival in Kenyan and that did not happen, I was presented to the sports tribunal where I explained to them about what happened, then the case was thrown away,” he said. Anzrah started his sporting career in 1980 engaging in competitive athletics. In 1982, he won his first Olympic honour in a 4×400 relay in Brisbane, Australia winning a bronze medal.  At the 1984 in Los Angeles Olympics he reached the semi finals in the 400m race. Later in 1987 he took part in the All African games hosted in Nairobi where he won silver medal having finished in fourth. He then preceded his sporting career to Mainz University in Germany where he pursued his coaching course from 1988 to 1990. Anzrah has since then been a sprinters coach up to date. Anzrah is an extract of a famous sporting family in the country. His other sibling is football legend Joe Kadenge and another Kenya medal winning sprinter Esther Kavaya. His daughter Doreen was a Kenyan sprint champion in the early 1990s and sons Felix and Edson are prolific footballers. His nephews Oscar, Evans and Rodgers (sons of Kadenge) are footballers of repute.