If the misfortune that befell Gor Mahia in the 2014 Shield competition is anything to go by, then fancied teams in the 2019 competition, which kicks off this weekend, ought to trade extremely carefully lest they also fall victims. In the countdown to the knockout event, which is, now known as SportPesa Shield, K’Ogalo’s ego was bruised when they were bundled out by nondescript GFE 105 of Eldoret on post-match penalties. It’s such background that has goaded cup holders Kariobangi Sharks coach William “Kanu” Muluya to take a cautious approach as his charges face rank outsiders Elim FC of Trans Nzoia at Bukhungu Stadium today in one of the round 32 matches lined up in the weekend. Muluya downplayed the possibility of Elim being victims of stage fright, saying they deserve a measure of respect. “Football dynamics in Kenya have changed and we should not read a lot into their (Elim’s) inexperience. Obviously, the game is vital to us and we have to stand our ground as the defending champions and reach the apex of the competition,” said Muluya. Sharks’ striker George Abege is on the injury list but the club is not short of replacements and Muluya is likely to summon the likes of Duke Abuya, Harrison Mwendwa and Pattilah Omotto to do the job. In the meantime, AFC Leopards will be angling at putting behind them the disappointment of losing to Sofapaka in a league match when they take war to equally inexperienced Transfoc at Bukhungu Stadium in Kakamega. Since being contracted as the new Ingwe coach to replace Serbin Marko Vasiljevic, Rwandese Andre Casa Mbungu has not registered the desired results at the den and would be desirous to make a mark in the knock-out to astound his critics. Elsewhere at Sudi Stadium in Bungoma, Sofapaka will have their mettle tested when they come face to face with Bungoma Superstars. This appears to be yet another game of wits but it is suffice to say that Sofapaka start favourites and are expected to lean heavily on Umaru Kasumba and Stephen Waruru to nag goals and finally eliminate the hosts. Meanwhile two SportPesa Premier league matches are set for this weekend and as Mount Kenya United face Vihiga United at Machakos today, Kakamega Homeboyz welcome Mathare United at Bukhungu Stadium Sunday. Both matches will kick off at 3.00 pm.   – CHARLES THUKU