BRIDE: PURITY NGINA GROOM: GERMANO RICHTER MUGAMBI DATE: FEBRUARY 22, 2019 VENUE: SAFARI PARK (PHOTO SHOOT AND RECEPTION) PHOTOGRAPHY: AVICOGRAPHY GOWN: IMANI BRIDALS MAKE-UP ARTIST: TSASSY Where did you meet? We both joined Egerton University in 2009, were together in a few mathematics courses and also went to the same church as we’re both Catholic, but we didn’t date then. We started dating seriously in 2017 while in Germany and got engaged in June 2018. That’s when you got your PhD and even attracted wide media attention as the youngest PhD holder in biomathematics in the country, at 28. Yet, he doesn’t have a PhD. In our patriarchal society, majority of men would probably feel intimidated No, he didn’t. My husband is the most intelligent man I have met. He has actually been told by many people how difficult it is to be with a PhD holder. But, he loves me and I love him and to us, that’s what matters. He is a very supportive partner. The mindset affects everyone. Did you face discouragement from women as well in terms of being an ‘overachiever’ who’s just beginning to build a home? Nowadays, many people don’t believe in the institution of marriage, which is unfortunate. People thought education made me complete, but the fact is, it did not. I needed someone who would love and support me unconditionally. God gave me Germano as the answer. He completes me. What do you like about each other? Germano: I  like her honesty, ambition and humility. Purity: I like his adventurous nature, his openness and the respect he has for women and humanity, not to mention, he is a true Christian. How did he propose? He visited Kenya in May for data collection and the following month on June 17, he took my friend Elizabeth and I for an outing. I didn’t fancy that plan as I preferred if it was just the two of us, little did I know they we’re working out a surprise. We were at Paradise Lost. How did you feel? From the time we started dating, I knew he was the one. He is calm and spiritual. It came at the right time. We had both had confronted our fears. What fears? The fear of whether we were both ready to settle down with each other. Was wedding planning easy or challenging? It was easy for us. We both did the budget.  I was the treasurer while he was the chairman. We didn’t have a committee, it was just me and him. I think if possible, one should not have people plan for them and the many WhatsApp groups. Since a wedding is a personal choice, one should finance it themselves. Anyway we are Africans and so used to our culture; to each his own. As for us, we both like to live within our means. Was it an invites-only? Not really, we just had those who managed to come. It was on a Friday, so many people were working. Why Friday? That was when the priest was available. Tell us about that and other ways one can cut down on their wedding budget We didn’t have an MC, no public address, no décor, no ushers for hire, no honeymoon in Dubai. We used our car as the bridal car rather than hiring. We used Uber and friends’ vehicles to the venue because bridal vehicles are expensive. My gown was Sh40,000. It was the best we could get. We really searched for it and bargained from the initial price of Sh60,000. I realised gowns can be quite pricey. I think a couple should work with what they have and should not let people plan for them. Don’t show off; there is more to marriage than the wedding day and honeymoon. Speaking of honeymoon, are you planning one? We are planning for one but in August. We need to save well and wisely. Any word to couples about to tie the knot? Do what you can. Don’t be pressured by anyone. Love is the most important part. Be guided by your future plans. For women, being a feminist does not mean being single. You can fight for women rights and equality when you are married. You just need a supportive partner.