Irene Githinji, Anthony Mwangi and Bernice Mbugua @PeopleDailyKe The Political Parties Disputes Tribunal yesterday extended orders stopping expulsion of Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa from the opposition Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party. Jumwa was handed a lifeline when the tribunal gave the party 10 more days to file its response over the issue. The team chaired by Kyalo Mbobu, together with Desma Nungo and Dr Adelaide Mbithi  had heard that the party was yet to file its response in the case. The tribunal directed the parties to appear before it on May 7. Jumwa has sued the ODM over decision to expel her saying it was made in complete disregard of the party’s constitution. Through lawyer Kipchumba Murkomen, who is also the Elgeyo Marakwet senator, the MP says she was expelled based on allegations that are not recognised by any law. The legislator argues that the decision to expel her from the party was unlawful. The MP had named ODM and Registrar of Political Parties as respondents in the suit. Just last week, the tribunal temporarily stopped ODM from expelling her from the party and ordered for an inter parties hearing on March 8.ODM party delegates had previously voted to eject Jumwa for disloyalty. She was accused of openly advancing interests of another party and further campaigning for Deputy President, William Ruto. Similarly, the party’s National Governing Council ratified its disciplinary committee’s decision to expel Jumwa and her Msambweni counterpart Suleiman Dori for gross misconduct. Dori was however,  spared after he apologised to the party. And yesterday, ODM party leader Raila Odinga said Jumwa could be spared expulsion if she agrees to apologise for violating rules. Rail a, who spoke at Toi market in Kibera  said the party is ready to listen to Jumwa and sort out the sticky issues. Kept in the dark But responding to the statement by her party leader, Jumwa told the party secretary general Edwin Sifuna to present to Raila her report to the National Executive Council (NEC) for him to read and make his observations. She told reporters at Parliament Buildings that her message to the Council was the same as that of Dori and wondered why the members found it apt to expel her and save Dori. Jumwa maintained that she was not given a chance to defend herself even after she wrote a letter through Murkomen seeking to be given a hearing.  “As things stand, I was expelled from the party, I was not given a hearing by the party, the SG has kept the party leader in the dark all along,” she said. Asked why she failed to write an apology to the party like Dori, she said that it was his prerogative to figure out how how to deal with the party, saying she has her own ways of addressing issues. But speaking in Kwale county  last weekend, Ruto accused Raila of political deceit, trying to create a rift in Jubilee Party and arbitrarily expelling members from ODM. “You cannot claim to be uniting Kenyans when you create divisions in other political parties and expel members from your own party. This is being dishonest to the country and political conmanship. Expelling people from your party does not unite Kenyans,” Ruto said. Development relationship “You cannot unite Kenyans by expelling Jumwa from the party for her development relationship with the Deputy President of the Republic of Kenya.” “It is shameful for a party leader to convene a whole National Executive Council to plan how to expel a woman. Men with their beards sitting to discuss a woman is shameful. It is not acceptable in this 21st Century,” he said. Ruto said the biggest challenge Kenya is facing today is dishonest leaders who do the opposite of what they say.