Buenos Aires, Wednesday @PeopleSports11 Argentina goalkeeper Juan Musso said it is an “honour” to have Lionel Messi return to the international stage. Messi has not played for Argentina since last year’s World Cup last-16 elimination but the five-time Ballon d’Or winner is back for friendlies against Venezuela and Morocco. Fresh off his 33rd LaLiga hat-trick, Messi will feature in Friday’s clash with Venezuela in Madrid before facing Morocco four days later, and Udinese keeper Musso is relishing his return.“We’re very happy,” Musso told reporters. “He trains like the rest of us and for us it’s an honour to have him back in the national team. “I hope all of us can meet the expectations on us and get the results that we’re looking for.” Messi – Argentina’s all-time leading scorer with 65 goals – has scored a LaLiga-high 29 goals this season and 39 in all competitions for Barcelona. Wednesday The 31-year-old, who has netted six goals in his past three games, last scored for Argentina in their dramatic late win over Nigeria to advance to the round of 16 at Russia 2018. Meanwhile, Messi appears tired ahead of Argentina’s friendlies, according to Cesar Luis Menotti. Cesar Luis Menotti would be “afraid” if Lionel Messi was to feature for Argentina against Venezuela in a friendly on Friday. Messi, 31, is set to make his international return after missing his nation’s matches since last year’s World Cup in Russia. The superstar has been in fine form, scoring six goals in his past three matches for Barcelona, including netting a hat-trick against Real Betis. But Menotti, who coached Argentina to World Cup success in 1978 and is now the country’s director of national teams, is worried about Messi’s wellbeing. “I’m afraid that Messi plays,” he told FM 94.7. “I see him with important emotional fatigue between the Champions League and the national team. I see him very tired. “If he wants to play with Argentina, better.” Argentina will face Venezuela on Friday before taking on Morocco four days later.   -FOTMOB