Kinyuru Munuhe @kinyurumunuhe The Sh63 billion phantom dam projects planned at the scenic, but water scarce, Kerio Valley, is threatening to sweep away the careers of a Cabinet secretary and possibly two colleagues as investigations gather momentum. Reliable sources have told People Daily National Treasury CS Henry Rotich is likely to face charges over controversial payment of Sh20.5 billion to bankrupt Italian firm, CMC di Ravenna. The investigation file is set to be sent to the Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji recommending his prosecution. Rotich is this morning expected to record a statement for the second time on the multi-billion-shilling scam that has drawn in Deputy President William Ruto and Opposition leader Raila Odinga into a war of words. The CS was expected to appear at the DCI headquarters last week but requested to appear at a later date due to official engagements. The summons follow the unearthing of new evidence about the payments by detectives who have been following the cash trail from the Treasury to Spain, Italy and United Kingdom before being wired back to Nairobi. It was not immediately clear who the other CSs are. Last week, Water and Irrigation Cabinet secretary Simon Chelugui distanced himself from the two projects, insisting that with the exception of Itare Dam in Kuresoi, they are not under his docket. According to Chelugui, the 57 dams under construction fall under the ministries of East Africa Community and Regional Development, Energy, Agriculture and Water. According to police sources, Kerio Valley Development Authority (KVDA) Managing Director David Kimosop, Procurement and Supplies manager William Kiprotich and an engineer Paul Serem are also persons of interest. Advance payment On Sunday, Rotich contradicted claims by Ruto that only Sh7 billion was paid out for the  implementation of the now controversial projects in Elgeyo-Marakwet and in an advertisement, stated that nearly Sh20 billion was spent as advance payment for the Arror and Kimwarer dams. The Treasury CS affirmed that up to Sh19.8 billion had been paid to different firms in the two projects on various dates as at the end of last year, adding that the amounts paid were fees paid out as part of the agreement before work could begin. A total of Sh20.5 billion was paid to CMC di Ravenna for the construction of the two dams. According to an expenditure breakdown adduced from the investigations and which Rotich released, an advance payment of Sh7.8 billion was made, Sh4.3 billion for Arror and Sh3.5 billion for Kimwarer. However, an additional commitment fee of Sh900 million; Sh418million for Kimwarer and Sh490millon for Arror, was paid out to CMC di Ravenna. Another Sh10 billion was advanced to Service Assicurativi Del Comercio Estero (Sace) in two tranches of Sh6 billion and Sh4 billion for the two dams. But a counter fund kitty of Sh900 million meant for compensation and relocation of land owners cannot be accounted for. Rotich has been at pains to exonerate his office from blame but findings have adversely implicated him through acts of commission or omission in the payments. According to the investigations, the money was hurriedly released from Treasury even before conclusive identification of the land for the construction of the dams and despite involvement of the National Land Commission officers over alleged compensation issues. Acquire land Detectives say the National Treasury later initiated a process to facilitate KVDA to acquire land from Kenya Forest Services (KFS) after realising the flopped project was under investigators’ radar. However, KFS declined to play ball since there had been no de-gazettment of such land, which must, in any case, be approved by the National Assembly. “KFS officials have recorded statements disowning the whole narrative. He (Rotich) will be here tomorrow (today) as part of the inquiry,” a senior detective privy to the  dams probe indicated. The investigations have drawn heated political debate with leaders aligned to DP Ruto accusing investigative agencies of being partial. Evidence presented by directors of some of the 107 firms summoned believed to have been either primary or secondary beneficiaries of the questionable payments have revealed the expenditures were diverted from core business of dam construction to other activities. By yesterday, 70 directors out of the 120 summoned had reported at the DCI offices.