Construction of a 6,000 tonne Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) storage facility in Takaungu village, Kilifi county is in limbo after key state agencies and a section of residents rejected it. Ministry of Lands, National Land Commission and National Environment Management Authority (Nema) have raised objection to the setting up of an LPG terminal and a mooring point, saying it would pollute the ocean. Change of user In a letter signed by Director of Physical Planning Augustine Masinde, the Ministry of Lands asked the company to stop the project in the area because the lands in question can only be used for agricultural purposes thus change of user to industrial purposes was not acceptable. Nema opposed the setting up of the facility on grounds of the proximity of the said land to the ocean, saying it would have a negative impact on the environment. “From the environmental view and the proximity of the said plots to the ocean, this authority strongly opposes the change of user from agricultural to light industrial purposes,” reads a letter signed by Nema Director General Geoffrey Wahungu. Section of residents disrupted a public hearing meeting on the project that had been called by Nema over the same issues. Two groups of residents clashed over whether to support the project, forcing the meeting to be called off before it could start. Some residents claimed the LPG terminal and a mooring point would pollute the ocean which support their livelihood while others welcomed the setting up of the facility in the area. The two groups accused each other of being bribed to support or reject the project. The meeting, however, could not take off after Nema, owner of the facility, Taifa Gas Kenya Ltd, and Kilifi County Commissioner who were expected to take part in the hearing failed to show up. “We know that some of the residents had a secret meeting yesterday where they agreed to vote for the construction of the gas terminal and we are therefore not ready to proceed with the meeting, let another public hearing be organised without the interference of the company,”  a resident, Salim Chongo said. Marine pollution Already construction work of a perimeter wall on the eight-acre piece of land has begun. Over 300 residents have signed a petition seeking to stop the LPG storage terminal and construction of single mooring point, claiming it will cause air, noise and marine pollution. Some of the residents claimed that in case there is gas leakage, the same will cause serious threat on marine biodiversity thus affecting fishing which is their main source of livelihood. They claimed that Taifa Gas Kenya Ltd had given little consideration to safety of people because it is very close to residential area and Mombasa Cement plant and any gas leakage could have devastating effect on the community. “Our main economic activity in the area is fishing, the biggest worry is on marine pollution which is our source of livelihood and in case of any accident it will pose a serious threat to our ocean,” said Dan Karisa, a resident. The National Land Commission wrote to Nema on November 15, advising against issuing an operating licence to Taifa Gas Kenya.