Clement Kamau and Kinyuru Munuhe @kinyurumunuhe Deputy President William Ruto yesterday said the ruling Jubilee Party will no longer watch as outsiders cause rift within it. He said the ruling party is fully behind the Handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga but warned that the same should not be used to stagnate and kill the Jubilee manifesto. Speaking at Mary Leakey Girls High School in Kabete during a funds drive for the construction of a perimeter wall, the Ruto said the Handshake had brought peace and harmony among Kenyans. “The Handshake ended demonstrations, hatred and division among Kenyans. However, the same should not be an avenue of killing our party’s manifesto,” he said. He called upon all political parties to respect women noting that it was absurd for ODM to expel MP Aisha Jumwa and yet the party claims to support the two-thirds gender rule. The DP was accompanied by Kiambu governor Ferdinand Waititu, deputy James Nyoro and a host of MPs including area MP Githua Wamacukuru, Kimani Ichung’wa (Kabete), Jonah Mburu (Lari), Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira) and Alice Wahome of Kandara, Nyandarua Woman Representative Faith Gitau and her Isiolo counterpart Rehema Gardeza. The politicians urged Uhuru to be ware of Raila who they described as a ‘political party killer’.  They said the war against corruption had been politicised. Laughing stock Waititu said it was unfortunate that the Jubilee leadership was listening and practising counsel by Raila who it defeated during the 2017 General Election. Elsewhere, Jubilee leaders allied to  Ruto called for unity in the top leadership to quell a possible political fallout. Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago said Uhuru and Ruto risk being a “laughing stock” going forward if they do not address the growing disharmony within the party. “I want to tell Kenyans to pray for both President Uhuru and his deputy. If they don’t sit and talk, they will be a laughing stock. Satan out there is ready to drag them through the mud,” said Mandago.