Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KNCCI) elections have entered the homestretch, with delegates set to go to the polls on from April 1. The exercise will culminate with national polls on May 28. The lobby has released the timetable for county and national elections to be presided by the chamber’s Independent Electoral Board (IEB) as various candidates jostle for positions. Nairobi, Murang’a, Kiambu and Kirinyaga counties will vote for their leaders at the beginning of the polls. Other counties have also been scheduled to cast their ballots on different dates in clusters of four, while Mombasa county will solely conduct their election on April 30. “Please be informed that the nomination forms for both the county chambers and national office elections together with the IEB Code of Integrity and Ethical practices are available and may be obtained from regional IEB board members,”  IEB chairman Benjamin Onkoba said. The announcement comes as top contenders for the national office are stepping up efforts to lure the delegates to their sides. Incoming leadership of the KNCCI is expected to confront a myriad of challenges in selling Kenya to international investors despite the country’s improved ease of doing business. The lobby with a presence in all the 47 counties, is set for elections after its current leadership served its full term. Jostling for position of the outgoing chair of the KNCCI, which has since been renamed “president” after broad amendments of the articles of association, is already heating up with three candidates having confirmed they will contest the post. These are Nairobi chapter KNCCI chairman Richard Ngatia, national vice-chairman James Mureu and  Businessman Gor Semelang’o. The candidates are already promising a raft of reforms. Ngatia, for instance, says he is seeking to develop a market framework that “will increase efficiency of the markets in Nairobi as the regional hub” as well as enact a revamped trade and markets policy to complement national policies.