Winstone Chiseremi @Wchiseremi Classrooms at Kuresoi Primary School in the interior Turkana South are empty ghostly!  Hunger pangs have weakened the leaners, who trek long distances to school under the scorching sun. For them, learning will have to wait as they grapple with the hunger that stalks them and their families. The institution has less that 10 learners out of the 200 pupils registered as the rest migrate with their parents to look for food. David Emase, Kuresoi’s head teacher says parents are sending their children to look for water and pasture for their livestock. Eyien Ankiror, a father of 20 says the effect of drought has forced him to stop his children from attending classes. He needs all the manpower he can get to look for food. Speaking through an interpreter at Kdipoluk village, Ankiror says the ravaging drought has taken a toll on his livestock, including camels, which he relied on to provide for his children and five wives. “I decided to pull all my children from school because I have no food to give them. Even at the school where they were learning I am told there is no food,” he says. Josephine Ekai, a head teacher at Kaloko Primary School commutes from Lokichar township situated 20km on a motorbike to report to an empty school as a formality at 11am daily. “We have not received any food from the government since February which used to attract high numbers of pupils. With the stores empty, no learner is walking through the gates,” says Ekai. Drought in Turkana county has hit the education sector heavily with more than 100,000 learners on the brink of dropping out of school. Early Childhood Development Education (ECDE) has been the worst hit with schools in remote parts of the county closing down. Education ministry has admitted that hunger has hit learning programmes in the region but refuted claims that 407 primary and 51 secondary schools in the county have been shut down and students sent home due for lack of food. County Education director Peter Magiri has confirmed the serious food problem has affected school attendance. “ECD centres in far flung areas in the county are the most affected as learners migrate with their parents in search of food, water and pasture,” said Magiri.