Tackling, blocking, and other physical interactions between players can result in contusions, concussions, and other common injuries. Injuries occur during games and practice due to the combination of high speeds and full contact. While overuse injuries can occur, traumatic injuries such as concussions are most common. The force applied to either bringing an opponent to the ground or resisting being brought to the ground makes football players prone to injury anywhere on their bodies, regardless of protective equipment. Players must frequently pivot and change direction, increasing the likelihood of injuries to the joints and other tissues. Sudden bursts of speed can cause muscle damage if the player is not properly warmed up. Overuse injuries are also common. The most common injuries include: – Ankle sprains A sprained ankle is an injury that occurs when you roll, twist or turn your ankle in an awkward way. This can stretch or tear the tough bands of tissue (ligaments) that help hold your ankle bones together. Ligaments help stabilise joints, preventing excessive movement. A sprained ankle occurs when the ligaments are forced beyond their normal range of motion. Most sprained ankles involve injuries to the ligaments on the outer side of the ankle. This sprain can occur due to a fall that causes your ankle to twist, landing awkwardly on your foot after jumping or pivoting and walking or exercising on an uneven surface. Signs and symptoms of a sprained ankle include: Pain, especially when you bear weight on the affected foot, swelling and, sometimes, bruising and finally restricted range of motion. Some people hear or feel a “pop” at the time of injury. Prompt first-aid care can reduce pain and swelling immediately after an injury to your ankle. Follow the R.I.C.E. model of self-care at home: A sprained ankle left untreated, engaging in activities too soon after spraining your ankle or spraining your ankle repeatedly might lead to complications which includes; chronic pain, ankle joint instability and early-onset arthritis in that joint. Once the swelling goes down, a physical therapist can help you with exercises to restore your ankle’s range of motion, strength, flexibility and balance. Balance and stability training is especially important to retrain the ankle muscles to work together to support the joint. These exercises may involve various degrees of balance challenge, such as standing on one leg. If you sprained your ankle while exercising or participating in a sport, talk to your doctor about when you can resume your activity. You may need to wear an ankle brace or wrap your ankle to protect it from re-injury. – Torn hamstrings A hamstring injury occurs when you strain or pull one of your hamstring muscles — the group of three muscles that run along the back of your thigh. When any one of these muscles stretches beyond its limit during physical activity, injury can result. A hamstring injury typically causes a sudden, sharp pain in the back of your thigh. You might also feel a “popping” or tearing sensation. Swelling and tenderness usually develop within a few hours. You may also experience bruising or discoloration along the back of your leg, as well as muscle weakness or an inability to put weight on your injured leg. The writer is a physiotherapist with Kenyan Premier League (KPL) side Mathare United As I wind up this article I would like to emphasize on the use of the R.I.C.E protocol as earlier indicated for managing injuries and most important finish by saying you should always avoid H.A.R.M whenever injury is sustained, H.A.R.M means you AVOID; H-HEAT,A-alcohol-running and M-massage. If you observe all this as a player you will always be on the right track in the unfortunate event that an injury occurs. The writer is a physiotherapist with Kenyan Premier League (KPL) side Mathare United