Mutwiri Muriithi @mutwirimuriithi Some 47.6 million active mobile money accounts realised transactions worth 360 billion in 2018 alone. Rising consumer demand for instantaneous content, products and services have put mobile phones at the centre of technological revolution. This informs the rise of affordable entry-level devices from various brands that continue to flood the market, a trend which will remain a key driver of smartphone adoption. A report launched by Jumia Kenya in Nairobi yesterday indicates that there has been a continuous decrease in the average cost of smartphones over the last few years. Titled “Kenya Mobile Report 2019”, the report further notes a steady decline in the average amount spent to purchase a smartphone on their e-commerce platform. “Kenya has the highest share of Internet coming from mobile devices as opposed to laptops and computers in the world. About 80 per cent of our traffic comes from mobile and 20 per cent from desktop. We can say that mobile phones have helped businesses run and we are a testimony to that,” said Sam Chappatte, managing director of Jumia Kenya during the launch of the report. He also said that over 70 per cent of payments on the platform are done via mobile money and mobile banking, indicating consistent mobile phone use. Despite the price of smartphones falling, users continue to focus on specifications along with brand perception and quality. This has resulted in brands creating value for Kenyan consumers by offering higher specifications for smartphones at lower pricing by investing in higher storage, larger screen size, better camera resolution and 4G network connectivity on their devices. The white paper report notes that the smartphone industry will remain a competitive landscape throughout the years, and anticipates more entrants into the Kenyan mobile market. Chinese brands have dominated the market and are among the top mobile brands on Jumia, Infinix has dominated the sales for the past three years whereas Xiaomi and Huawei have also been strong new entrants, gaining 5 per cent and 9 per cent market share on Jumia respectively in 2018.