The ongoing tussle over leading the probe on the controversial takeover of Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA) took a new turn after National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi barred a House committee from probing the matter. Muturi, in response to a protest note against the Public Investments Committee (PIC) for overstepping mandate to conduct the probe, said the JKIA takeover falls within the mandate of the Transport, Public Works and Housing team. The ruling means a directive issued by PIC that the takeover process be stayed pending the determination of the investigations is now null and void and talks may proceed. The Speaker, however, in a letter to PIC chairman Abdulswamad Nassir directed that the committee may deal with the matter if it was a query arising from the examination of audited reports and accounts of Kenya Airports Authority (KAA) or a special audit. Transport committee chair David Pkosing had written to the Speaker protesting that PIC had overstepped its mandate by commencing a probe on the planned takeover. The Transport team has already started investigations into the matter and had questioned the management of KAA and Kenya Airways (KQ) on the takeover. Nassir had maintained that the standing orders were clear as to what the committee’s mandate is in such matters. But Muturi in his ruling deflated Nassir’s argument, saying PIC acted in contradiction to Standing Order 206, which states that the committee shall not examine matters of major government policy as distinct from business or commercial functions of public investments. “It is clear that the issue of the takeover of KAA by Kenya Airways is a mater of major government policy and as such, the matter falls within the mandate of the Transport committee,” Muturi said in the letter to Nassir. PIC members had signed a memorandum calling on Muturi to approve the recommendations by the committee— that KAA management stops negotiations on the planned takeover until the issue has been discussed and agreed on. “The standing orders are clear on what our mandate is. Apart from playing an oversight role over State parastatals it is also within our mandate to ensure there is prudent utilisation of public money,” Nassir told People Daily. Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria, who is the Transport committee vice chair, had earlier said the tussle over which committee should take lead in the probe had been raised with the Speaker and a ruling was being awaited. However, the two committees agree that the planned takeover of JKIA is ill-adviced and should be stopped, even as the forces behind the move remain unknown.