Amos Abuga @PeopleSports11 Kisii County Governor James Ongwae has thrown his weight behind the move by Athletics Kenya (AK) to take sports to the grassroots, promising to make the 2020 National Cross-Country Championships to be hosted by his region a success. This comes after the just concluded National Cross-Country Championships at the Eldoret Sports Club, which were seen by many as a great accomplishment. It is no secret that, though the first race was assigned for 2:00pm, the facility was literally full to the brim by 11:00am, reiterating the need to take events to the people and not people to events. Ongwae, whose county will succeed Uasin Gishu, as the next destination for the annual event that has traditionally been held in the capital is propitious fans at the proletarian have been sidelined for far too long, something that thus needs to be re-written. The county boss has instructed the sports department in his cabinet to ensure the exercise set for next February is given outermost support for it to see full fruition. “Kisii Golf Course has been tested and approved before having hosted the National Cross-Country Series, most recently this January,” Ongwae said. “Again, while putting the fans first, the course has prime spectator points, where none will feel left behind. If there is better reason for taking the trials to the grassroots, then I don’t know,” said Ongwae. According to National Cross country coach David Letting, Kisii Golf Course is regarded as a generally real cross-country course, one that can easily pass without obstacles like the mud barriers and haystacks as witnessed at the Eldoret Sports Club. “That to me defines an almost near perfect course for me, I am hoping more such events in the future will borrow a thing or two from the trials counties like Uasin Gishu,” said Letting. One of the downsides from the just-concluded trials in Eldoret was hugely expressed from the fans who decried lack of essential view-points, at one point being whisked away from spectators’ areas which the technical team personnel, for being ‘too close to the track’.