We all love to go out once in a while, or often, to let loose or just hang out with friends. The idea of a night on the town is to have fun, but sometimes our fun can come at the expense of the people serving us. To avoid pissing off the wait staff, and everyone else in the pub, here are a few tips to consider when you go out. Order Once: Don’t order a drink and then when the bartender comes back, another one and then another one. Know all the drinks you want and order them all at the same time. When you ‘Yo-Yo’ the bartender, you’re taking away from the other guests who could’ve been served in your stead. Order the same shots: Say you and your crew are kicking off the night with shots, but you all have your own preferences. If you are five people and order five different shots, it will take five times the time to serve you all. Make it simple, settle on one drink and save the barkeep the hassle. Kanua ka Muguri: This is a popular Kikuyu statement when ordering drinks, loosely translated into, the buyer’s mouth. Simply, don’t order if you are not the one paying. It only serves to confuse the waiter when it comes to settling the bill, unless of course the one buying has already indicated to the waiter that you are drinking on his tab. Stick to your lane: Some pubs sell the same drink twice or thrice the price you get it at your favourite watering hole. Complaining about this to the bartender simply makes you look cheap and uninformed. The bartender doesn’t set the prices, simply stick to bars you can afford or shut up about the price. Don’t store stuff behind the bar: The bartender can’t take responsibility for your valuables and can’t be expected to keep an eye on them. Your stuff may get lost and will likely get dirty behind the bar. Keep your valuables with you or leave them in the car or check them in the coat check. Just because you know the bartender doesn’t mean that he/ she is your caretaker for the night. Don’t question the bill: A golden rule to remember, bartenders are usually the sober ones at the bar, seeing as to how they are at work. They are not in the habit of inflating your bill, so be soberly sure that it is wrong before going on a tirade about how you are getting fleeced. It may be your drunk mind messing with you. Don’t hog the pool table: Pool tables are the most popular games in pubs, but they are for everyone. Sometimes you come across a group who won’t cede the table, playing round after round while the rest watch on. It doesn’t belong to you or your mother. Play a round and hand the cues to someone else. Better yet, adopt the winner stay system to keep everyone happy. Same goes for foosball and any other bar game. Don’t leave a mess: Granted, some people go to the pub to drown their sorrows and beat stress. However, don’t be the guy, or gal, who nervously shreds the napkins and peels off all the labels from the bottles. It’s just rude to the person who has to clean up after you.