South African Louis De Jager maintained his momentum on the second day of the Magical Kenya Open to return a five-under par 66 and remain at the helm of the leaderboard going to the third round. Having taken an overnight lead tied with England’s Jack Brar at seven-under par 64, De Jager opened a four shot lead with the English after the latter bogeyed the par five 12th and par three 14th combined with three birdies at the par four first, eighth and 17th for one-under par 70 and a total of  eight-under par 134. The 31-year-old made seven birdies but three putted the second green for a first bogey of the day and registered another bogey at the par four fifth for the 66 score. “When we played a practice round on Tuesday, I felt home, back in our continent. You get used to the feel of the Kikuyu grass and the ball travels the same as back home in Pretoria, distance wise, so it really feels like we’re back home. I had to find my feet a bit at the start of the season but I’m feeling comfortable out here, this is where I belong,” said De Jager. Spanish Adri Arnaus dropped two shots at the par three, fourth in a troubling front nine performance that saw him drop two more shots at the par four third and seventh for a total of 38 after picking a birdie at the par four fifth. The 22-year-old carded a perfect 30 on the back nine with six birdies for a three-under 68 and a total of eight- under 134 to tie second with Brar. India’s Gaganjeet Bhullar, South African Justin Harding and Italian Guido Migliozzi tied for third place after scores of one-under par 70, six- under par 65 and three -under par 68 respectively on the second round.  Speaking on his round, De Jager mentioned how great it was to be back in Africa and how glad he was that he was playing well. “It is always nice to be back in Africa, and when we came here on Tuesday, I felt right at home on my home continent and it felt very similar with the altitude to Pretoria which is home for me. I have been hitting it really well over the past two weeks and I did that again today, but just managed to hole a few putts too.”