Kinyuru Munuhe @kinyurumunuhe The Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) Noordin Haji and his Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) counterpart George Kinoti were on Sunday left in shock after they visited Itare dam site. The duo reportedly found two South Africans and several guards from a private firm. Heavy equipment and machinery had also been abandoned by the contractor who is said to have gone to Italy. Italian firm, CMC di Ravenna, which was awarded the contract, has since been declared bankrupt. Vehicles diverted A visit by Kinoti and Haji to the water pump station that had been earmarked to supply Nakuru town and its environs revealed that it was abandoned shortly after the contractor finished scooping soil from the site. A similar situation awaited the two at the water treatment plant, which was similarly abandoned after the site was fenced off. The campsite for workers has equally been deserted and only a few local residents have been left in charge of the place. The geo-technical investigations by Italian engineers that had started after the scam broke have also been dropped. Kinoti and Haji are said to have stumbled upon dozens of vehicles that had been purchased towards the construction of Kimwarer and Arror dams but had been diverted to Itare. The discovery led them to impound similar vehicles that had been left parked at a warehouse in Industrial Area, bringing the total to 48. The vehicles have since been towed to the DCI headquarters. Documents from the National Treasury show that the  government has already paid CMC di Ravenna Sh11 billion out of Sh38.5 billion budgeted for Itare dam. The Italian company also won tenders to construct Radat dam in Marigat, Baringo county at a cost of Sh20 billion, and Kithinu dam in Nkubu, Meru county at a cost of Sh26 billion. This is besides two other mega dams the company is constructing in Rift Valley region with Arror dam expected to cost Sh38 billion and Kimwarer dam Sh28 billion. At the same time, former Attorney General Githu Muigai and former Solicitor General Njee Muturi are scheduled to shed light on the advisory opinion they gave over the deal between Kerio Valley Development Authority (KVDA) and the now bankrupt Italian CMC Di Ravenna. KVDA reportedly gave misleading information that they had acquired 400 hectares of land from the Kenya Forest Service (KFS) in exchange for 570 hectares of private land, an assertion KFS board dismissed. Detectives say that Sheria House — through Githu and Njee —  issued an advisory against KVDA entering into a loan facility agreement with CMC di Ravenna. Grazing ground Trade and Industrialisation Cabinet secretary Peter Munya, who served as the East Africa Community CS that is also expected to record a statement at the Serious Crime Unit. “There is nothing going on at the grounds. It is just a bushy vast land that serves as grazing ground. Yes, indeed the DCI and DPP were on the ground,” said a senior detective privy to the ongoing investigations. National Treasury Cabinet secretary Henry Rotich, Eugene Wamalwa (Devolution), Mwangi Kiunjuri (Agriculture), KVDA managing director David Kimosop and KVDA Procurement Manager Paul Kiprotich have since been grilled by detectives and the files forwarded to DPP for review.