Baraka Karama and Eric Juma @PeopleDailyKe Nearly one year after what has come to be known as the Handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Orange Democratic Movement leader Raila Odinga the 2022 succession contest continues to take new shape. Raila’s close allies, led by Siaya Senator James Orengo,  said the Handshake has given the former Prime Minister the perfect opportunity to succeed Uhuru when the latter’s term ends. Raila, who was thought to have drowned into the sea of political oblivion after losing the presidency in 2017 seems to confound both friend and foe. Special envoy Today, his close association with Uhuru has caused a major rift within the ruling party Jubilee, with many accusing him of masterminding the squabbles. Deputy President William Ruto, who announced that he is backing the Handshake after a prolonged silence, now seems uneasy with the newly-found unity between Uhuru and Raila and has openly accused the latter of wrecking Jubilee from within. But Orengo has repeatedly claimed that Raila would cruise to the coveted seat through the Handshake. “This Handshake has a deeper meaning and I can confirm to you there is light at the end of the tunnel. It has now made things easy,” said Orengo. Raila was appointed African Union High Representative for infrastructure. Uhuru visited Raila’s Opoda farm in Bondo and laid a wreath at the Jaramogi Oginga Odinga mausoleum in Nyamira Kango. During a second visit to Kisumu late last year, Uhuru received a resounding welcome during which time he confirmed that Raila was in government. And on Saturday, during two separate burial ceremonies in Ugenya, Orengo said the President has consulted Raila on matters politics. “If you see the Head of State calls Raila my elder brother, and he is always furious with those who are against his unity with him, then think out of the box,” he said. Matters politics He maintained that Raila may get a smooth ride into leadership in 2022 and called on Ruto to step aside on corruption allegations. “If people like us can have communication with the President through Raila’s phone, that is only the grace of the Lord and this tells you that the future is bright,” said Orengo. “The DP must be silent and watch what is happening,” added Orengo. He said the amendment of the Constitution will create room for an all-inclusive government, adding that the Handshake, which is pegged on Building Bridges Initiative, will answer Raila’s presidential bid that has been elusive for years. “The Handshake is a God send gift to those of us who have for years been in political cold despite agitating for good governance in this country,” said Orengo, who was accompanied by leaders from Nyanza and Western regions.