Amos Abuga @PeopleSport11 Confederation of Africa Football (CAF) yesterday eulogised departed match commissioner Hussein Swaleh, as a committed football administrator whose legacy they will strive to keep his legacy going. The high-powered delegation led by CAF Executive Committee member Leodgar Tenga and acting secretary general Essadik Alaoui, on behalf of CAF president Ahmad Ahmad, termed the loss of the former Kenya Football Federation (KFF) Secretary General, as a huge blow to continental football. “We as CAF have not only lost a colleague, but a family member, one who spent most of his life serving the game. Africa has lost a great son,” Tenga, a former Tanzanian Football Federation (TFF) president condoled the family at the Fifa Goal project in Kasarani. Blessing The former football administrator was on the ill-fated Ethiopian Airlines plane that crashed on Sunday morning en route to Nairobi from Addis Ababa that saw all 157 people on board perish. “As the African body and with the blessing of the president, we shall continue to work together with the family more so as to keep Swaleh’s legacy going. As tradition, we have given our donation to the family, one that will remain private,” he said. Ashraf Hussein, son of the commissioner who was in charge in the CAF champions league match between Egyptian side Ismailia and DRC’s TP Mazembe played on Friday in Cairo, eulogised his father as a dedicated sportsman, responsible gentleman and responsible father. professionals in the sports industry to take keen interest in the various topics will form the agenda on anti-doping information sharing on the fight against doping as they will serve the sector in various capacities. “We are delighted by the developments of such events which is a culmination of our multi-faceted strategy to deal with the doping menace in Kenya.” Said Rugut. The team is gelling well so far and I am pleased,” he told People Sports on phone. Meanwhile up and coming Fortune Sacco from Kirinyaga County had their Coach sent off to the stands but still beat St. Joseph’s Youth 2-1 to move to ninth on 10 points while struggling Nairobi City Stars held Kenya Police to a 1-1 draw at Hope Center.