How did you get this bike? I always had a farfetched dream to get a bike but it was all just that, a dream. Then a friend who we’d been talking about getting bikes with actually got himself a bike, a bobber. To see him actualize his dream and see him with his bike spurred me on to get my own. At the time, however I was financially committed and couldn’t spare a lot o money to get a motorcycle. Since I am a hands on creative, I like making things myself, I flirted with the idea of building my own bike, after all the guys in the factories building them were men like me. I decided to look for a wrecked bike and build it up into the café racer style. I didn’t want to buy a new bike and tear it apart, that would have been wasteful.  I met a guy who had been duped into buying a bike in bad condition and got it for Sh30,000. What did the build involve? A few months prior I had been researching on bikes when I came across the café racer style and it was exactly what I wanted. I wanted a sexy head turner to commute to work every day. I started by tearing down the engine and replacing all the internals, which took about a month because I was buying one part at a time.  I then started selling off all the parts I didn’t want such as headlight, indicators and dashboard. I had ideas from five different bikes that I wanted to incorporate into the bike, from the tank to the mono-shock set up. At this time I used to go to work, open up shop then spend the day at the garage fixing the bike. That was my routine for 15 days as I didn’t want them to fabricate anything while I was away. The blueprint was in my mind so I had to guide them. What’s the best part about it? The fact that it’s a unique bike elicits reactions from the general public when I ride by. It’s a nice feeling to know that they appreciate my handiwork. Secondly is the personal satisfaction of knowing that I’m riding something that I built just for me. There’s no beating that feeling. Any downsides? The one drawback I have is that the monoshock is not entirely perfect. There are certain calculations done in the factory regarding weight, height pivot and so on that guarantees a smooth ride. Mine absorbs the shocks but needs revisiting. Also I wish I had more power, 100cc is sometimes not enough.