Amos Abuga @PeopleSport11 Mkhana we Indumbu! Mkhana we Indumbu!,  so goes a popular catchphrase, among supporters of defending Football Kenya Federation (FKF) Women Premier League champions Vihiga Queens. Literally translated, it means ‘a girl with a muscular calf’ among the Luhya community, the team has vowed to leave an indelible mark in the women league both into local and continental stage. Having won the women’s league, back-to-back in 2017 and 2018, the ladies are determined to have the trophy for keeps, at the end of the season, once they make it thrice on the trot. At the pinnacle of last season, the Alex Alumira coached side amassed a total of 80 points from 30 matches to defend their title in the 16-team top tier league. The league was so tight that former champions Thika Queens only fell a point short of the champions.  The club is predicting an even tougher season this year. Captain Enez Mango, one of the longest serving players at the team says teamwork is the main factor driving the ladies forward. “Losing to Thika Queens during the play-offs that marked the end of the 2016 season spurred the team, they vowed to take revenge and make the side a fortress,” recalled the Computer science graduate from Methodist University. Work in progress “Two years on, we are not yet there, it is work in progress, one that has promising end results,” added the defender who has previously turned up for Kisumu Olympic. Two matches into the 2019 season, the side sponsored outfit by Vihiga County, just like their name suggests Vihiga is oozing with confidence. They have played Vihiga Leeds winning 2-0 followed by a similar score line against Nyuki Starlets  before thrashing Kibera girls 3-0, all the goals scored by lethal forward, Terry Engesa. Over the past weekend,  the defending champions thrashed Mathare women to remain at the helm of the women’s log with 12 points and 15 goals. “The goalkeeping department has done amazing job,” says goalkeeper trainer Staus Olienge. “With Samantha Akinyi, Winfreda Seda and Lillian Awour, honestly I don’t think, there is any team with better shot stoppers than us. That is one of the secrets behind the team’s dominance,” adds Olienge. Having conceded only three goals in the second leg of last season only reaffirms Olienge’s theory that the department is the most blessed in the entire league. The desire is to go a notch higher this season, says the 49-year-old who doubles up as the team physiotherapist who holds a modern football coaching license. Legacy makers Club chief executive officer Michael Senelwa, has attributed the team’s success to understanding between the playing unit and the technical bench, a feat he wants the team to repeat this season. “The girls want to be better than they were last season and the seasons before. The ladies are striving to be better, in tandem with the club’s motor which is legacy making,” said the CEO. The side receives over Sh16 million annually from the county government towards playing  salaries, travel expenses and accommodation whenever the team is out of the county to honour league matches County Executive Committee (CEC’s) in charge of sports, heritage and culture Felistus Okumu, has introduced a bill in the County Assembly that will among other things ensure eradication of gender bias.