Implementation of a raft of reforms aimed at boosting the country’s agenda to improve the ease of doing business is one of the key agendas for candidates seeking Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KNCCI) president’s post. With only two months to the poll, candidates are criss-crossing the country amid intense lobbying in all chapters to sell their agenda to their members. Over the weekend, Richard Ngatia, KNCCI Nairobi Chapter chairman toured North Rift, Nyanza, Western bloc and Nairobi, meeting county chamber leaders and members in a race against time in what is anticipated to be a highly contested poll. “We shared at length with delegates our vision for a sustainable chamber. The delegates suggested low hanging fruits in terms of a quick turnaround, foremost among them, rolling out of the county empowerment programme in all the devolved units,” he said. Prompt payment “We also aim to engage line ministries to offer tax amnesties to small and medium enterprises. However, it is our responsibility to build their capacity and ensure they meet all tax obligations as provided by the law,” Ngatia added. Nairobi businessman Gor Semelang’o and James Mureu are among those seeking to succeed Kiprono Kittony as president. In an apparent boost for Ngatia, two candidates have stepped down in his favour, Laban Onditi and Stephen Mbugua have stepped down and publicly declared their support in what they attribute to the need for chamber stability. “Establishment of SME fund will not only support growth but also ensure jobs are secured in a trickle-down effect. Prompt payment of traders by government will also enable them to meet their tax obligations and hence more revenue to government,” Ngatia said. Traders have been decrying delayed payments. In Kisumu, Ngatia was received by Kisumu county KNCCI chairman Jared Ochanda and a host of delegates who endorsed his candidature. Ochanda is the longest serving chamber member in Kisumu spanning decades. The chamber has proposed a raft of changes including renaming the national chairman’s position to be referred to as the chamber President and Vice President. The position of Second Vice President has also been introduced and the office bearer shall be an appointee of the chamber president.