Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka has called for strengthening of county assemblies to enable them to undertake their oversight role effectively. He said the assemblies, as currently constituted, are weak and inadequately empowered to oversight powerful county Executives. Speaking during the sixth Devolution Conference at Kirinyaga University yesterday, the Speaker said county assemblies’ roles have largely been assumed by the Senate, adding that the trend should be discouraged. Lusaka said the assemblies should be allowed to handle their own finances and get the funding directly from the Exchequer. “We need to empower our devolved units so that they can carry out their oversight role effectively, today they are inadequate and can’t effectively carry out their mandate,’’ he said. The Speaker said county assemblies are an  integral part of devolution and if allowed to play its part, it would help in strengthening devolution at the grassroots. “If the assemblies control their finances they will be able to carry out their mandate without expecting favours from the Executive as is the case today,’’ said Lusaka. Most county assemblies he observed, bend according to the governors’ whims. By giving county assemblies independence to control their finances, he said, it will enable them to effectively carry out the oversight mandate without any influence from the Executive. The Speaker said Senate will continue to play its role and strengthen devolution. “With a strong county government, devolution will be a game changer in development. I urged all stakeholders to support devolution,” said Lusaka. At the same time Devolution Cabinet secretary Eugene Wamalwa lauded devolution saying it had brought real change at the grassroots. He said though there have been challenges, Kenyans can see tangible changes on the ground and can feel devolution. The CS, however, said corruption has become a major impediment to development in counties, adding that many cases of theft of public resources have been noted a practice he said, must be discouraged. “Fight against corruption must be supported by all Kenyans. I urge governors to support President Uhuru Kenyatta’s no nonsense attitude against corruption,” he said. The devolution CS warned that those who misappropriate public resources in the counties will face the law, their position notwithstanding. Uhuru officially opened the conference accompanied by his deputy William Ruto and other senior government officials.