Kenyan tea tops market requirements globally, owing to observation of good agricultural practices, an international conference heard last week. The workshop at a Nairobi hotel informed value chain players that tea producers continue to adopt standards provided by international and local certification bodies on good farming ethics. International Institute for Sustainable Development advisory services coordinator Christopher Wunderlich said tea producers in Kenya responded positively to international markets requirements as per stipulated standards. “Kenya is among the tea producing countries because of farmers’ adherence to the standards has maintained best quality in the world. The standards have been actualised right from the farm to the market level,” he said. Wunderlich made the remarks while delivering a presentation to value chain players on sustainability and voluntary certification in Kenya tea sector at the workshop which sought to develop an action plan to address opportunities and challenges. However, even though these standards are good, Wunderlich said the issue of cost is still a concern to farmers. Quality of tea “In Kenya the issues of workers condition, economic situation, environmental and processing are well undertaken in the tea growing countries like Sri Lanka. Anthony Muriithi, interim Director General of Agriculture and Food Authority (AFA) said adoption of standards have helped in maintaining quality of Kenya tea.  “But we are of the view that so many standards in the sector from various certification bodies need to be harmonised,” he added. Tea taskforce report released in 2016 recommended for the harmonisation of the various standards in the tea sector. “The concern of tea sector is multiplicity of International Standards (Ethical Tea Practices and Quality) that tea producers are expected to observe,” Wunderlich said. He said the current status is that the tea sector has multiple and costly international standards, and phytosanitary standards, Kebs and ISO certification programmes. “There is no doubt that the Kenya tea industry has been on an upward trajectory. There is need to build on this positive trend by sustaining the benefits accruing from the ongoing initiatives that I outlined earlier. So far 68 Kenya Tea Development Agency managed tea factories are Rainforest Alliance certified while 21 are Fair Trade certified. Other players have a total of 26 Rainforest Alliance certification, four Fair Trade, and three Organic certification.