They held a lavish wedding sometime back, but no lavish wedding should hold a woman to an abusive marriage. Neighbours say they fought a lot—same neighbours who ignored her cry for help when she was breathing her last. Same neighbours who thought, aaah kawaida yao. Same neighbours who would (I’m guessing) occasionally giggle when she walked out with a black eye. These neighbours! And this is where they’ll say, marriage is not easy, ni kuvumilia tu. Beryl Adhiambo and the other women who succumbed to domestic violence, rest well mamaas. But as for me, I refuse to conform to this school of thought that says wanawake ni kuvumilia. And who will vumilia us women if all we do is mother grown a** men? If it doesn’t work, walk away, but run if you’re dealing with an abusive spouse. Move on, marry another, and if he’s violent walk away. Walk away, walk away until you find one sober one, we won’t judge, and those who will don’t matter anyway. My two cents? See that sermon that says till death do us part? That should be stretched to say till death or violence do us part. No? Then it should be mandatory that the wedding sermon covers domestic violence. And society (read family) should never paint a woman a failure for leaving such a marriage. Because this is where it all begins. Nitaambia watu nini? It is about time parents realised that it is a different generation now. Kuvumilia today is totally different from their vumilia. Vumilia today would mean the abuse, the slay queens, the herpes, the excessive drinking… A slashed arm, slashed legs, disfigured face from acid attack…! Need I say more? This is also society that protects abusers because it works under the illusion. “No, my husband loves me! He would never want to hurt me, it’s just that this and that happened…and anyway, I’ve been doing things to provoke him…” It literally kills women. We’ve seen many cases this year alone, two months into the year. But how many more cases are expected to serve as a wake-up call, if the cases so far aren’t enough?