A lot of women have been maimed or died in the hands of violent men all because the mentality that men own women still lives. As Cynthia Mukanzi writes, men should understand women are not obligated to please them, at least not in any of the following ways: 1. Sex I don’t know who told men that women are sex-vending machines. They got it all wrong. Just because you bought a woman lunch or took her out on a date doesn’t mean she now owes you her body. It’s one thing for a woman to show interest and actually want to get sexually intimate with you, but it’s a totally different story when you want to coerce her into your bed as payment for your cheap dinner. When you take a woman out and spend money on her, know that she has every right to stop midway and rush home if need arises. And even if you are dating and a woman is not in the mood for sex, then go no further. 2. Don’t answer to you Some men think women need to explain themselves to them for every little thing they do. Whether you are dating or married, women should not have to seek permission from you before they do something. There are women out here who cannot advance in life because their boyfriends or husbands do not want them to pursue further education or even business projects. Such controlling men are usually insecure and, therefore, threatened by their partners’ success. 3. Smile Women do not just hand out smiles. You could be walking in the streets and a stranger comes in your face to tell you to smile. Sometimes, being a woman is exhausting; you have to put up with so much crap for fear of getting attacked. It could literally escalate from “smile a little” to a verbal and physical attack from a man you have never seen before. 4. Explanation for saying no It’s 2019 and women are still expected to give reasons for turning down unwanted advances from men. No is a short and full sentence that shouldn’t be hard to understand. It is disrespectful and annoying for them not to just get it and get out of the way. 5. Invitation to a woman’s house I’m talking about shameless men who aren’t close to a woman, but want to invite themselves into the woman’s home. The “utanipikia lunch lini?” type who are probably stingy, but expect to be invited and nourished. Just because you speak to a woman doesn’t mean she wants you in her personal and private space and her home is off limits and you are not welcome until she says so. 6. Obsessed with validation Hello, we are not your mothers! We are not here to caress your ego and make you feel good, so stop seeking unhealthy validation from women. That is not our responsibility, so please keep your self-esteem issues in check. It’s okay to be complimented, but the obsession with wanting to be liked by women or seen in a certain way is ridiculous. Just be you and do your thing. Trust me when you do that, it doesn’t matter which corner you sit at or the time of the day; if you are a good person, your aura will be felt. 7. Attention This probably ties up with the hunger for validation. There are men who always crave for being noticed by women and ‘catch feelings’ when things don’t go their way. You are not a toddler anymore and you can’t keep clinging on the hems of our clothes throwing tantrums for attention. It’s pathetic and a sign of lack of confidence. 8. Conversation It is rare for a woman to come up to another woman with small talk and force them into a conversation. But sit next to a man in any public space and I swear they will find something to talk about and expect you to engage them. And some of them do this with ill intentions. And the most preposterous thing is that they get offended if you ignore them. 9. Time Don’t feel special that you think women are here to drop whatever they are doing and call. People with such mind frames expect so much from a woman whom they wouldn’t do the same for. We just want bad energy to stay far away. 10. Nourishment Everybody who eats and loves food should teach themselves how to cook. You can’t sit around and place on someone else’s child the duty of being fed and nourished. Get in the kitchen and cook for yourself! How were you surviving before that woman came into your life?