With the beginning of the year behind us, many are looking forward to enjoying the various seasons that pepper the calendar, beginning with Easter, which is just a couple of weeks away. Travel being one of the ways we celebrate these fetes, HARRIET JAMES and MATILDA NZIOKI combed industry insights and expert advice to bring you the latest trends Interest in travel and tourism in the country is at an all-time high. Long gone are the days it was a preserve of a few urbane individuals, who even so, would go on vacations probably once a year. “A few well-off families would go on holiday over Christmas, however, with the rise of social media and technological advancements, travel has become easier and more accessible to the middle class and many more. The affordability of travels, the need for wellness, as well as growth of the Internet, which for instance opens people’s eyes to destinations they didn’t know of before, have all consequently led to ballooning of the industry,” says Simon Kabu, CEO of tours and travel company Bonfire Adventures. Holidays are a time for relaxation, rest, learning and growing, and it seems any reason to go on vacation flies. As a result, novel trends have emerged in the industry. MUMCATION Motherhood is an existential role, but can be a stressful affair, and apparently, mums need a break from these duties from time to time, to rest and recharge without the kids. Picking up toys, squealing toddlers, rebellious adolescents, playing referee, as well as endless cooking and cleaning can all take a toll on a mum, hence, psychologists recommend stress reduction approaches such as mumcations, which are meant to allow mothers to relax and enjoy some me-time, as this is at times not possible in their daily routines. This is said to be beneficial not only to themselves, but their families too, as they become better mums. They can opt to spend the time alone or in the company of friends, to rejuvenate. Eliud Ndungu, CEO of Safiri Nasi, advises mothers to research on the destinations before booking. “Know what to expect and find out whether it is what you are looking for. In addition, understand your budget and plan in advance,” he says. Mumcations, thought of as the advanced ‘girls night out’, feature a range of activities including spa treatments and shopping. A number of women chamas have been booking group trips to China, Thailand and Dubai, where they combine me-time and shopping, especially for business purposes. It’s antithesis is mancation, also known as mancursion, which grew in popularity in the early 2000s in the West, when resorts began marketing men-only trip packages, following the success of all-girls getaways. The term became a buzzword in the tour industry after featuring in the 2006 movie The Break-Up. It’s meant for guys to get away and bond with each other, doing boys’ stuff such as adventure sports, fishing, watching games live and whiskey tasting among other activities. The 2012 comedy film going by the same title is about a man who feels his younger brother’s machismo has been stifled by marriage. To help reclaim the lost masculinity, he takes his brother on a ‘testosterone-filled’ mancation. PILGRIMAGE This is a journey to a shrine or any other place that is significant to a person’s faith or spiritual belief. In short, it can be said to be a journey of spiritual or moral significance.  Most religions have particular places where they attach a spiritual importance to. For instance, places where their prophets or saints are said to have been born, lived or died, places mentioned in their religious books, and even places where miracles were performed. In most instances, these sites usually have a temple or mosque where people can worship and find a spiritual awakening or connection to their deity. For Christians, travelling to Israel at least once in their lifetime is something memorable. Christian pilgrimage was first made to sites connected to the birth, life, crucifixion and resurrection of Jesus. Kabu, whose company offers such packages, attests to the rise of travellers seeking these trips. “Christians follow the footsteps of Jesus and reconnect with their God. They go to places where Moses took the Ten Commandments, they step in Galilee, and all the other places of spiritual significance,” he says. John Kimani went to Isreal last year with a mission of reconnecting with his faith and seeing firsthand the places where Jesus, an important figure in Christianity, walked. “I went to Golgotha, where Jesus was crucified and also where Jesus was betrayed. I also went to Jesus’ tomb and the Wailing Wall where people pray. At the various sites, there was someone with a Bible reading the scriptures on what happened there. It’s like the Bible came to life,” he recalls, adding that he also visited the Dead Sea, whose waters many enjoy floating on. So inspired was Kimani about making such a pilgrimage that he plans on going for another trip to visit neighbouring Bethlehem located in Palestine. The city is just 10 kilometres from Jerusalem, where he visited the various Christianity sites. “The experience was enriching to my faith as today, I read the Bible and things feel so real. I would recommend it to all Christians,” he says. Other than Christians, Muslims go for the Hajj; a pilgrimage to Mecca, which is one of their five pillars and a duty that ought to be carried out at least once in a lifetime. The adult Muslim participating in the journey must be financially endowed to support their entire family during their absence. BABYMOON News presenter Lillian Muli last year debuted her baby bump while on her babymoon. She took her eight-year-old son on the Bonfire Adventures-sponsored trip to the Coast. Babymoon vacations have become a popular trend among mums-to-be, who seek to enjoy a relaxed getaway one last time before welcoming their bundle of joy. Ideally, it should be a romantic getaway for the parents-to-be before the birth of their baby, or bonding time with their newborn a little while after the birth, but mums-to-be have also been seen travelling alone or with friends or close family. “Some couples opt to go on a babymoon as their ‘final’ holiday just before they transition into having a family. Being expectant doesn’t mean you stop living your life. Babymoons contribute to making pregnancy enjoyable,” Kabu says. “I’m totally in love with this place. Suite fit for a queen because mummy needs this. Let’s face it, these next few weeks are probably your last chance for some real alone time. Common sense dictates that your health (and that of your growing baby) are paramount as you plan your trip. Consider the availability of healthcare wherever you’re going, make sure you have appropriate insurance or access to money and talk to your midwife and doctor before you book. You can choose to head off on holiday with your partner, friend or a loved one before baby comes,” soon after checking into her hotel, Muli shared on the importance of taking a babymoon with her thousands of followers on Instagram. Eliud adds that such trips are good for mums-to-be emotionally, mentally and also spiritually. It also offers an opportunity for one to have fun and rest. However, it is important to note that babymoons are often taken in the second trimester of pregnancy, especially if one will travel by plane, as that’s when it’s safest to do so. “One can also go to a local spa or book a relaxed holiday somewhere calm with easy access. All vacation plans should be considered in line with one’s individual health and requirements, as it is important to stay fit and healthy whilst pregnant. You may want to discuss your plans with your midwife, and also consider insurance,” he advises. AGRITOURISM This is travel that incorporates learning more about agriculture. It involves individuals making a booking at a farm or other agriculture-oriented property, to have a taste of the lifestyle. “We have travellers going as far as Israel just to learn their methods of farming such as grapes,” says Kabu. Other than travelling overseas, there are many local farms that welcome tourists and are focused on offering a unique experience through education and food. These include Brown’s Cheese Farm, Kiambethu Tea Farm, Kawamwaki Farm and Mlango Farm in Limuru, as well as Morendat Vineyard in Naivasha. Mlango Farm has horses, and guests get to ride in the green Limuru countryside that is also dotted with rivers and waterfalls. At Brown’s Cheese Farm, guests get to learn the process of making cheese through a tour at the factory and farm that has dairy cows and vegetables, sample different types of cheese fresh from the factory that they can buy to take home, as well as a three-course pre-booked lunch prepared from locally grown produce. Kiambethu Tea Farm gives travellers insight into life on a settler farm. The farm was bought by AB McDonell in 1910. He was among the pioneers of the tea industry, who began selling the commodity commercially in the country. Currently ran by his granddaughter Fiona Vernon, five generations have lived on the farm. The farmhouse, encircled by acres of tea is open to tourists, who are welcomed with a cup of tea or coffee as they’re briefed on the farm’s story and the process of making tea. Then, accompanied by a guide, follows a tour in the farm and adjacent indigenous forest to learn about the local flora and fauna. The daycation concludes with a return to the house for a pre-lunch drink on the verandah overlooking the tea fields and a three-course buffet lunch, also prepared using homegrown produce. Morendat Farm hosts Rift Valley Winery, home to Leleshwa wines. It opens its gates to interested travellers, who for a booking of Sh10,500 per head, will be welcomed with tea and snacks then get to tour the vineyard and learn more about grape vines. Afterwards, a three-course meal is served paired with the Leleshwa variety of wines for each course. There is also an opportunity to buy the wines at discounted rates.