Grace Angela When death comes knocking, bereaved families seek for closure of what really happened and to some, a sense of closure comes in when they view the body of their loved ones. However, when the body is missing some communities around the world conduct various rituals to remember them. For Americans, when tragedy strikes making it impossible for them to have a body for burial, the family opts to bury an empty casket. Others choose to bury whatever part of the body they could find even if it was just a toe. Special prayers known as Dua are made for the departed soul according to Muslim communities drawn from different countries around the world. To them, a missing dead body means that there is no way a funeral can be conducted. Burning effigies The Hindu community highly values cremation of the dead, so that a transition to a new life can be made. However, cremation of an effigy happens when the kin lacks the body for burial. Different plants could be used to represent different body parts of the deceased, for example, a coconut would be used to represent the head, skin of an antelope to represent the skin and a plantain for the tongue: the effigies used vary. According to the Congolese in the Democratic Republic of Congo, if a tragedy occurs and bodies are missing beyond 72 hours of tracing them, then a burial ceremony cannot be conducted according to their traditions. In some West African cultures, the bereaved order for a memorial box from the coffin maker, and thereafter hold a memorial service around it. This acts as a replacement for an actual coffin giving the family a sense of closure. Personal items For the Ghanaians, the body is replaced by personal items of the deceased. “Here, we pour libation to appease the gods and then bury coffins embedded with personal items of the deceased, especially things they really loved and left behind,” Ismail Akwei, Editor at Face2Face Africa says. In Haiti, where the voodoo religion thrives, burial rituals are considered vital in sending off the deceased into a special place where they await reincarnation. The burial usually follows a nine-day wake, where the community celebrates the deceased in different ways. When more than 30,000 people died in the earthquake in 2010, a mass burial was conducted, meaning that families were unable to conduct these important burial rites. In its place, they held a ceremony as per their religious beliefs to release the spirit of the dead from their bodies. In Japan, families often conduct a private ceremony or a public funeral service depending on the circumstances. Buddhists usually follow the instructions of their abbot or chief administrator on how to proceed in such a case.