The Supreme Court faces a looming crisis following disciplinary action that has been kick-started against six of its seven members. The highest court in the land risks being crippled since a minimum of five judges form the mandatory quorum when applications, petitions and appeals are being heard. Two judges normally give administrative pre-trial directions. Only Justice Isaac Lenaola has been spared the agony of his counterparts, who are required to present their defences against allegations of misconduct to the Judicial Service Commission (JSC) within 14 days. There appears to be a disquieting lull before the storm as Chief Justice David Maraga, also the President of the Supreme Court and chairman of the JSC, battles accusations of nepotism and tribalism. Code of conduct Embattled Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu has not been handling her docket since August when the High Court suspended 13 criminal charges involving her commercial transactions with the collapsed Imperial Bank. In a dramatic twist to the high-profile prosecution, Justice Chacha Mwita blocked the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) Noordin Haji and the Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti from proceeding with the case pending the outcome of Mwilu’s constitutional petition. Justice Jackton Ojwang faced the wrath of the JSC on Wednesday when the commission formally recommended to President Uhuru Kenyatta to appoint a tribunal to investigate his alleged misconduct, impropriety, conflict of interest and breach of the judicial code of conduct. JSC adopted a petition filed by Nelson Oduor Onyango and eight others, who had protested that Justice Ojwang had handled an application involving them and the Town Council of Awendo despite the judge’s close relationship with Migori Governor Okoth Obado. Similarly, Justice Njoki Ndung’u is staring at an uncertain future since she and Justice Ojwang had been jointly accused of misconduct in a previous matter when they sided with former Deputy Chief Justice Kalpana Rawal and former Supreme Court judge Philip Tunoi in their controversial quest to retire at 74 years. The duo snubbed summonses by the JSC but sent their lawyers Nani Mungai and Richard Musangi, respectively. Election petition In an interesting twist, Mohamed Mohamud Sheikh has made fresh accusations against Justices Ojwang and Ndung’u, along with Justices Mohamed Ibrahim and Smokin Wanjala, over their handling of the election petition pitting Wajir Governor Mohamed Abdi against his predecessor Ahmed Abdullahi. Yusuf Ibrahim Dimbil has filed a petition against Justice Maraga for alleged gross violation of the Constitution. 