Zaddock Angira @PeopleDailyKe The Ethiopian Airlines Boeing 737 jet to Nairobi that crashed yesterday morning killing 159 people had “unstable vertical speed” after take-off, according to Swedish flight-tracking website flightradar24. The ill-fated jet — Boeing 737-800 MAX, registration number ET-AVJ — is the same model as Lion Air Boeing 737 MAX 8 that crashed into the Java Sea shortly after take-off from Jakarta, Indonesia killing all 189 people on board in October 29, 2018. Though airline CEO Tewolde GebreMariam said it was too early to determine the cause of the crash, reports indicated that officials were investigating whether changes to the Max 8’s automatic controls might have sent the plane into an unrecoverable nose-dive. Software coding The US National Transportation Safety Board said it would be sending a four-person team to assist the Ethiopian Civil Aviation Authorities in investigating the crash. Safety issues have, however, been raised following the investigations into the Lion Air crash. Since the new engines for the Max were larger than those on the older version, they needed to be mounted higher and farther forward on the wings to provide adequate ground clearance. Early analysis revealed that the bigger engines, mounted differently than on the previous version of the 737, would have a destabilising effect on the airplane, especially at lower speeds during high-banked, tight-turn maneuvers. The concern was that an increased risk of the nose being pushed up at low airspeeds could cause the plane to get closer to the angle at which it stalls, or loses lift. Consequently, there were also some changes in some software coding intended to automatically offset the risk that the size and location of the new engines could lead the aircraft to stall under certain conditions. Preliminary investigations revealed that though necessary, Boeing and the regulator Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) decided that the pilots did not need to be retrained about a change introduced to the 737’s flight control system for the Max. The Lion Air crew, investigations further revealed, were left largely uninformed and did not have a full understanding of how to address the issue of faulty data erroneously indicating that the plane was flying at a dangerous angle, leading the flight control system to repeatedly push the plane’s nose down. Fuel-efficient engines This malfunction, is said to have contributed to the crash. However, Boeing maintained that various systems on both the Max and its previous generation 737 could push the nose down. They added that the pilots of the Lion Air flight should have known, by going through the check list, how to handle the emergency despite not knowing about the modification.  This Boeing’s position is said to have left many pilots angry and concerned. Boeing then decided to add a new program to the aircraft’s existing flight control system to counter the destabilizing pitching forces from the new engines and ensures that the nose is at the proper angle for the plane’s speed and trajectory. In effect, the system would automatically push the nose down if it sensed that the plane’s angle was creating the risk of a stall. The modified system’s first task was to automatically offset the stall risk created by the change in the size and location of the engines. The FAA would also determine what kind of training would be required for pilots on specific design changes to the Max compared with the previous version. Some changes would require training short of simulator time, such as computer-based instruction. The larger, more fuel-efficient engines Boeing wanted for the 737 Max led to a change in the flight control system that was never highlighted for pilots. In the Lion Air crash, one of the primary theories is that the system was receiving faulty data about the angle of the plane from the angle of attack sensors on either side of the fuselage that measure how much the plane’s nose is pointing up or down. The jet is fed by data from only one of the two angle of attack sensors at a time, depending on which of two is active.