Hillary Mageka @hillarymageka Gathi Irungu He is a controversial lawyer with more than 15 years experience. Irungu, a former Jubilee Party aspirant for Molo Constituency is immediate former Kiambu County Assembly Speaker. He brands himself as the guy in the street, simple, most approachable and easy going  Unlike others, he says, he has a different approach to issues and proposes to have the Judiciary to adopt digitisation of files and perusal of pleadings, court scheduling, case management and hearing to reduce graft, ensure effective running of Judiciary and save time. He is promising to instil new ethos, values and integrate Judiciary to the aspirations and levels of Wanjiku and introduce customer care desk for JSC, among other things. Charles Mongare Ongoto Little is known about the advocate of the High Court, with 15 years in active practice. He has branded and billed himself as the safe pair of hands for lawyers to bring effective, efficient and accountable Judiciary. “I have the best, clean and honest record among my competitors. I stand for the efficient, effective and accountable Judiciary,” he insists. On Corruption, Ongoto promises to rally his fellow commissioners to weed out rogue judges and magistrates as the courts need honest servants “who cannot be manipulated”. He also promises to instil discipline to some judicial officers and improve on working relationship between the bar and the bench. Alex Gatundu He is an advocate of the High Court with at least 15 years of experience. He is the current vice chair, African Bar Association, Kenya chapter. Gatundu is also a former national representative of LSK in the council He is seeking to represent LSK in the powerful JSC after he failed twice in his attempt to capture the LSK presidency. He describes himself as bold, blunt and independent-minded.  “I am not available to be captured by the cartels hanging in the corridors selling justice to the highest bidder,” he said in an interview. He has proposed the reconfiguration of LSK leadership structure to bring on board young lawyers. Macharia Njeru He is the immediate former chairman of Independent Police Oversight Authority (IPOA) and an advocate with  more than 15 years experience. He says that, unlike his rivals, has the “best understanding” of JSC having served at the helm of board’s of many financial institutions and public entitles. Njeru believes as a constitutional commissions, JSC should be involved in developing strategies for growth. “This time lawyers have an opportunity to elect someone who not only has long experience in practice but also someone has run institutions. I am the best candidate and I believe for the first time we will bring meaningful change,” he says.