Entrepreneur, journalist and now CEO of Fanaka TV, TERRYANNE CHEBET, 39, wears many hats. In line with this year’s International Women’s Day theme, HARRIET JAMES sat down with the corporate lead, where she talked candidly about her life, journey and new role at the helm of a media company Her warm smile welcomes me into her office the day I was scheduled to have an interview with her. It was, as it usually is, a busy day for her, but the CEO managed to slot me in her schedule. Terryanne was born 39 years ago in Kitale. Her late father encouraged them to read and speak fluent English. Unaware of what she would become in future, her father, who was the first African curator at the national museum, was particular in how they communicated and insisted on proper diction during conversations. “There was a presenter on KBC radio known as Constance McKenzie, who my dad would insist that we listen to, to learn how to pronounce certain words. At that time, it didn’t inspire anything in me, as all I wanted was to be in daddy’s good books and avoid getting corrected whenever visitors were at home. To date, we all speak proper English because of that,” she narrates. They didn’t grow up with a TV at home, instead, they had a big library. Toys were things she made for herself and not what was bought for her. The first real autobiography her father gave her to read was on the life of Bob Geldof, an Irish rockstar. She also read poetry books such as those by Okot p’Bitek, and at just six, could recite a number of poems she had read. So good was she in reading, that her class teacher at Kitale Primary wanted to move her and her friend to the next class because she could fluently read a newspaper. However, Terryanne’s parents rejected the proposal, but her friend was bumped a class ahead. She did well and desired to go to Alliance Girls for her secondary education, as did her father, but she didn’t. After being persuaded by her pastor, she settled for a high school in Kitale and was active in every club. “I was a prefect. I was in drama club. I was in Science Congress and also did poetry. I remember a poem I wrote dubbed The Naked Earth made it to the nationals. I enjoyed being active in many co-curricular activities,” says the media personality. She got a B-minus in KCSE, disappointing her teachers, who believed she would have attained a higher grade if she participated in fewer clubs. Her parents, however, were content with the grade, as they loved it when their children were all-round. SAD NEWS After high school, Terryanne served in the youth group in church and at one point, demonstrating burgeoning business acumen, she also sold mutumba clothes. “I requested for cash from my mum and went to Maili Saba market to check out stuff. I bought 10 camisoles and sold them to my mum’s friends, making a profit,” recalls the bubbly entrepreneur. In 1998, she began reciting poems in KBC’s radio programme, In Search Of An Answer. It was during her time there that she realised she wanted to study TV and film production. On top of that, she took a diploma course in French up to Level Two. Her plan though, was to study film overseas, but her family could not afford it. In 1999, Terryanne lost her father. “I think I didn’t mourn him properly. I chose not to see him in the coffin and my family was a bit worried about that because they thought that I would not have closure, but I told them I never wanted to imagine him like that. I wanted to keep the happy memories I had of him, because I think that’s a picture that never leaves your mind. I agree that it would have been good for closure, but I was 19 and couldn’t handle it, and it’s not like I regret the decision. Naturally, I wish he was alive to see how I’ve grown and watch where the diction has taken me,” recounts Terryanne. Though painful, she continued with her various undertakings including acting, which she had also gotten into, and didn’t allow the loss of her father to distract her. In 2002, she got an internship at KBC, where she handled the In Search Of An Answer and Kids Unlimited shows. “The then producer travelled to Netherlands and left me to sit in. It was an exciting opportunity to learn,” she explains. In 2004, the opportunity for news anchoring came. Her boss called her into the office and broke the news that she had been given the chance. “With a lot of panic and fear, I did it. What people don’t know is that it took years to settle in. God gives you an appearance of calmness when on screen,” the 39-year-old admits. FIRST CHILD As Terryanne went on learning her way around the studio, she welcomed her daughter in 2006, and realised she needed to supplement her low pay. Her daughter’s father was supportive, but had to leave his job to study film. She got a job in an advertising agency and would work there during the day then in the evening, she was a news anchor. The following year, CNBC Africa desired to expand into the Kenyan market and needed anchors. Friend and fellow anchor Nyatichi Nyasani tipped her to apply for the position, but Terryanne wasn’t confident about her suitability. “She believed that I was the right person and convinced me to apply. Though I felt like the interview was a disaster, I passed all three stages and in March 2007, I joined CNBC as the East Africa correspondent,” she reveals. The media star hosted a show titled Kenya This Week, but was still battling the fear of going live. PRESIDENTS AFFAIR The CNBC team saw her potential and took her through a two-month training programme to learn more about her work. Her job involved interviewing high-profile individuals such as CEOs, CFOs and business magnates, which taught her how to hold a conversation and network. She even got a chance to interview President Paul Kagame of Rwanda. “I was in Rwanda on assignment and luckily, we got a chance to interview the president. He gave me only half an hour. I called my boss in Nairobi to let him know that I had secured the interview. I wasn’t even prepared. I had to buy a wig, didn’t sleep all night as I was on phone with my boss and the bureau chief. The last question was about him being regarded as a dictator, which gave me chills,” she recalls. She went on to interview former Nigerian president, Olosegun Obasanjo and Thabo Mbeki of South Africa. Her other memorable interview while at CNBC Africa was with the renowned business mogul Richard Branson. “He made me so comfortable. I am glad I had read most of his books, which made the interview much easier,” she says. “One thing my boss at CNBC told me is to always ensure I’m unforgettable each time I interview someone. I have to put my best foot forward so that the next time they see me they don’t forget the experience they had with me. If they forget you, then you didn’t make an impression,” offers the communications expert. Having rubbed shoulders with the high and mighty, one would think she had overcome getting butterflies when on the job, but she says, over the years, she has learnt to cover it up and gain courage, so as to remain focused. “When you laugh, you relax. That eases the pressure of stage fright.” ENTREPRENEURSHIP Her journey with the station ended in 2010 when she was offered a position to anchor prime time business news on Citizen TV. Terryanne jumped at the opportunity, but her stay there was short lived, as she felt the position didn’t reflect what she had anticipated. “I tendered my resignation and began a digital PR firm with a friend, Emily, known as Scarlet Digital. We approached companies such as banks to handle their social media among other services,” she explains. Shortly after, she found herself back on screen, when she was hired by K24 as an anchor. This clashed with her desire to run her business, which had begun expanding, on a full-time basis, and they had to hire a team to handle the day-to-day running. Around the same time, another business opportunity presented itself. Her daughter Imani suffered from eczema and while she was experimenting with what products suited her best, a friend advised her to go for natural products instead of exposing her daughter to harsh chemicals. She tried shea butter from Ghana, which worked well, but she found the cost of getting it locally exorbitant, and that’s how she thought of starting a beauty products business, Keyara Organics. “I had difficulty finding the product locally, so I decided to bring it in myself. After suggesting it to a few friends who had a good experience with it, I started packaging it for sale. In northern Africa, Keyara means a river. In the Irish language, it means black or beautiful,” she says. She didn’t know how to price, but within a short time, she learnt the nitty gritties of the business. Her first sale was to a friend, who kept coming back and referring other friends. The official launch was in 2014 at Capital Club and thereafter, she opened social media accounts to market the products. She also went from shop to shop hunting for stockists. By this time, she was already back at Citizen TV as in 2012, her former employer had come knocking again. She was excited to host Business Centre, which is what she had always dreamt of. She was happy to bring people to be part of important conversations centering around the business field. “This was the highlight of my career, as I interviewed bigger names. I had moved from introducing myself to people knowing me by name.” Unfortunately, the media personality lost her job in 2016 following restructuring by Royal Media. The news hit her hard and she has previously narrated publicly how it traumatised her. “I began asking myself; ‘What did I do wrong? Was I not great at my job?’ These questions were the hardest for me to answer and it took a long while before I was okay with what had happened and moved on with my life. Luckily, I had my two businesses, whose open arms I ran right into,” she says. CHIEF EXECUTIVE In a bid to assist her pick up the pieces, her friend and business partner at Scarlet pushed her to go to work. “She was at my door the very next day after the devastating news to pick me up in case I was too drained to show up at the office,” recalls Terryanne. “I would go to work and for meetings then return home and just cry. It got worse at night, because I had all the time to think about my situation. I could manage getting through the days because the occupied schedule took my mind from it all, although things would change each time I met someone who consoled me for my job loss. I never used to look at my social media during the day because the day would just be ruined. Though majority of the people were just sympathising with me and giving me hope to trust in God’s plan, I was still in pain,” admits Terryanne. Having a supportive family and a caring business partner saw her through the difficult period and in October 2017, exactly one year after she got the retrenchment letter, her baby, Talaa, was born. The little girl’s birth, she says, brought new beginnings to her. “I had the option of choosing the date of birth for my first-born daughter, which was Good Friday, but for this one, I didn’t, and the fact that it fell on the exact same day my world came crushing a year earlier, spoke something to me. I’m enjoying the journey so far. She is a happy child, she sleeps well,” adds the mother of two, who was recently unveiled as Molfix Diapers brand ambassador in Kenya by Global FMCG company Hayat Kimya, when the Turkish conglomerate officially launched its operations in the country. Barely two years after the sack, lady luck came smiling at her, as she was appointed the new chief executive officer of Fanaka TV, a 24-hour news station with a special focus on business, current affairs and sports. “They approached me to join the company in April last year and I grabbed the opportunity with my all,” she says. Unlike her former job, which entailed news anchoring and looking for stories, as a CEO, her challenges are much bigger, and as she confesses, she is learning everyday to be better. “Things are different as I’m looking at strategy, execution, human resource and revenue. I nowadays pick calls faster, which I didn’t in the past. I used to watch my former bosses rush to call back when they found a missed call, and it’s only now that I understand why,” she explains. As a CEO, she is now focused on leaving a legacy and ensuring that the business channel is an agent of change in the society.