Mutwiri Muriithi @mutwrimuriithi The sectors that churned out the most Kenyan millionaires while generating wealth for the country last year have been revealed. Knight Frank Wealth Report 2019 shows where majority of wealth owned by Kenya’s millionaires is generated from. Top sectors that generated wealth last year were financial investments at 17 per cent, technology and telecommunications at 15 per cent and retail, fashion and luxury goods at 11 per cent. Media, transport and logistics stood at seven per cent whereas basic materials in the extractive industry such as mining stood at six per cent. The report also shows that the number of high-net-worth individuals (HNWIs), those with a net worth of more than $1 million (Sh100 million) excluding their primary residence in Kenya grew to 9,482 in 2018 from 9,176 in 2017, an increase of 3.3 per cent. The number is projected to rise to 11,584 individuals by the year 2023 which is an increase of 22 per cent as the super-rich continue to amass wealth by exploiting the above mentioned sectors. Out of the 9,482 HNWIs in 2018, 125 were ultra-high-net-worth individuals (UHNWIs), those with a net worth of more than $30 million (Sh3 billion) excluding their primary residences. However, only four individuals crossed into this wealth bracket last year, with the number expected to reach 155 UHNWIs by 2023, a 24 per cent forecast growth. Wealth growth “Last year was an overwhelmingly positive one for Ultra-High Net worth Individuals (UHNWIs) globally in terms of wealth growth,”  said Andrew Shirley, Editor of The Wealth Report. “There is growing awareness around the world regarding the increasing number of emerging challenges that wealth creators will need to overcome over the next few years and beyond.” Nairobi hosts most of the country’s ultra-wealthy, those with a net worth of at least Sh3 billion with 82 residing in the capital as of last year and the number projected to rise to 102 over the next five years. Kenya’s higher rate of minting multi-millionaires is not in tandem with the relatively hard economic times the country has experienced in the past three years and the resulting fall in corporate profits.