Zachary Ochuodho @zachuodho Barclays Bank of Kenya is credited as one of the first organisations to have acknowledged the role gender equity, diversity and parity plays in the business growth of companies. A decade after Kenya gained independence, the bank promoted the first woman, Agatha Obare, to the position of branch supervisor and five years thereafter, it appointed Mary Okello as the first branch manager in 1977. In 2015, the bank became the first listed company to achieve a 50:50 male to female representation at the board level. However, current only two out of 14 personnel in the management team and three out of nine board members are women. Caroline Ndung’u, director of marketing and corporate relations says equality and diversity sit at the heart of the success of any organisation. Extensive training Ndung’u Barclays Bank views diversity and inclusion as an imperative for business growth and has over the years taken deliberate steps to promote the gender agenda within the business. “Through the Women Network Forum (WNF), we run mentorship programmes which have so far equipped more than 300 women with the skills required to rise through the ranks,” she says. She adds that WNF has also spearheaded the Females’ Future initiative which is a one-year intensive training programme aimed at preparing women at the vice-president and director levels for future board positions. According to Ndung’u various studies, including one by the World Bank have placed female representation on boards at just 18.5 per cent in Kenya. “Our workforce is split 48:52 women to men while women occupy 32 per cent of the directorship positions,” she says. Barclays Bank of Kenya has partnered with the International Trade Centre (ITC) in the SheTradesKE initiative to provide 10,000 women in the small medium enterprises (SMEs) sector with skills to upscale their ventures and access international business opportunities. “We have so far trained more than 2,200 women and given them loans valued at more than Sh340 million. We are soon launching a proposition that will take into consideration the unique needs of our female clients,” says Ndung’u. Rewriting rules Research indicates that leadership teams with greater diversity, particularly gender diversity, develop better solutions. As it currently stands, Ndung’u says, no country in the world has fully closed its gender gap according to the most recent survey by the World Economic Forum’s Global Gender Gap Index. “To achieve equality, Nordic countries (Norway, Sweden, Finland, Denmark and Iceland), have been rewriting the rules of work by adopting more family-friendly policies to help both men and women succeed in the workplace,” she says. These countries frequently top the gender gap index for having the highest women workforce participation rates in the world, with corresponding economic growth levels. In the Global Gender Gap Index, Kenya still has some distance to cover before it can attain gender equality. A 2017 Index placed Kenya in position 76 out of 144 economies surveyed with Rwanda, at position four overall.