L ocal league champions Gor Mahia take their hunt for continental football glory to the punitive Carthage with two CAF Confederation Cup fixtures against NA Hussein Dey on Sunday night in Algeria then to Egypt against Zamalek seven days later. K’Ogalo are on top of Group D with six points having won twice and lost once. Hussein Dey and Petro Atletico are jointly second on four points while Zamalek occupy the bottom spot on two points. The Carthage tour holds the key to unlocking the group as Gor Mahia needs a performance away from home to counter what the joint second placed teams have already achieved. A draw in either fixtures will greatly boost their chances as they await the final group game at home to Petro Atletico. The Kenyan team requires a minimum of ten points from the six group games to secure a quarterfinal berth. With six points already in the bag and a home game still to come, K’Ogalo must transfer their rich vein in Nairobi to foreign cities to get at least a point. Coach Hassan Oktay has been boosted by a near-full squad with combative defender Joash Onyango returning after one match suspension. Sulking striker Dennis Oliech also returned to the team after sitting out the home victory over Hussein Dey last weekend. Only George Odhiambo is suspended for the clash but having ceded his starting slot in the team to diminutive Boniface Omondi, K’Ogalo are not expected to struggle much. Samuel Onyango is also firing fit and should play an integral role in the game. Gor Mahia’s undoing in their single away loss was blunt striking despite dominating play in Angola. They conceded two first half goals and pulled one late in the 2-1 loss. Oktay intimated that his approach would be different in Carthage. The Turk who is experiencing African football for the first time said: “I have noticed how teams play but our system has been different. My philosophy is to dominate games home or away. That did not work out so well in Angola so we’ll play differently in the next away game.” “We have a great team and know what we need to do to reach the quarterfinals. Other teams also have their strategy but we must overcome whatever they throw at us. Ultimately, we must qualify for the quarterfinals and do it playing well,” Oktay added. Travel hitches hit Gor Mahia’s travel to Algeria on Friday for their fourth CAF Confederation Cup Group D tie against NA Hussein Dey on Sunday night. K’Ogalo’s traveling contingent of 18 players and five technical bench members were temporarily delayed when the Ministry of Sports availed just twenty air tickets instead of the promised 30.