Money is not the problem, they have enough to buy goods worth millions without feeling the pinch. Yet kleptomaniacs can’t resist the urge to snatch something they don’t need  irrespective of how little it costs Harriet James @harriet86jim Shirley Wanjiru* (not her real name) is a professional, middle-class woman with a great job. She takes home a fat salary not to mention allowances good enough to make her life comfortable. Everyone envies the life she lives only that she has a secret that no one else knows except the shops, which have fallen victim of her intriguing behaviour. She is a compulsive thief. She has no reason to steal, but she does it. “I don’t know what comes over me, but every time I’m in a shop, I get tempted to put something in my handbag praying to God that I don’t get caught,” she confesses. The urge to steal and the inability to stop herself makes the situation helpless. One time, while she was going on her usual business of stealing, the shop attendants saw her and she was caught. For the sake of her reputation she had to plead with them to let her go, paying cash for all the items that she had stolen. “That night, the thought of what I was doing, what I had become, disgusted me. The inevitable consequences of losing my job and going to prison was unnerving, but the next day, I found myself hopping to another shop for another adventure,” she says. But even though she does it, that feeling of guilt never leaves her. Sometimes, it drives her insane to the point where she has to return the item she’s stolen. Everyday, news of people who have been caught shoplifting bombards our TV screens and the Internet. While most of these individuals seem to be genuinely in need of the items they have stolen, others are rich people, who sometimes make people wonder whether they need what they’ve taken or they just want attention. It never crosses people’s minds that there are those amongst us who steal for fun and not necessarily out of need. Samuel Ndung’u* (not his real name), a staff in a prestigious store meets such people at least every week. From his experience, these individuals, who are mostly women, look sophisticated and have the cash to buy what they have stolen. Worse, some are frequent visitors who at times come with their families to shop. Embarrassing situation “One time, we caught a wife of a renowned CEO stealing and she paid for the items when we caught her. She feared the embarrassment of her husband knowing that she steals.  I knew her husband because she frequently visits the store with him to buy goods. Once they bought goods worth Sh500,000. This made me wonder why she would do that,” he confesses. According to Samuel, most people doing this are not poor as they are frequent clients in the shop. Some have the capacity to buy expensive goods as they are regular customers. “It makes you wonder what they lack or why they do this. With just one swipe, of a debit card, they are able to purchase stuff and sometimes they add onto their purchase,” he says. This condition known as kleptomania is the recurrent inability to resist urges to steal items that you generally don’t really need and that usually have little value. Officially, it was first recognised and given a diagnosis in a French textbook in the year 1838. At first, researchers categorised it as a mind disorder and it has come to be referred to as an impulse disorder in the US. Risk factors The cause of kleptomania is unknown, although it may have a genetic component and may be transmitted among first-degree relatives. Some psychiatrists argue that there might be a possible connection between impulse control disorders, which includes kleptomania together with certain chemicals in the brain known as neurotransmitters. These neurotransmitters assist the nerve cells in the brain to communicate and send messages to each other. Any imbalance of these chemicals can consequently result in a change in how the brain controls impulses. It involves experiencing tension before the theft and feelings of pleasure, gratification, or relief when committing the theft. The stealing is not done to express anger or vengeance, is not in response to a delusion or hallucination, and is not attributable to conduct disorder, a manic episode, or antisocial personality disorder. People with kleptomania often have another mental illness, such as bipolar, obsessive-compulsive disorder, anxiety disorder, eating disorder, substance use disorder or a personality disorder. One theory proposes that the thrill of stealing helps to alleviate symptoms in persons who are clinically depressed. Since it’s all stealing, differentiating a plain thief from another person who is just shoplifting is a challenge. By definition, are the repeated failed attempts to stop stealing. Life of fear And while it can be confused as shoplifting, the two are different. Shoplifting is the premeditated intent to steal and in most instances, the person often does it to express anger or even to avert perceived wrong. On the other hand, kleptomania is the inability to refrain from the urge to steal which causes great anxiety. Unlike typical shoplifters, people with kleptomania don’t compulsively steal for personal gain, on a dare, for revenge or out of rebellion. They steal simply because the urge is so powerful that they can’t resist it. Generally, such episodes of kleptomania happen spontaneously, usually without planning and without assistance from another individual. According to psychologist Ruth Maura, most people with kleptomania steal from public places, such as supermarkets and stores they may even go as far as stealing from their friends at a party. “Often, the stolen items have no value to the person with kleptomania, and the person can afford to buy them,” she observes. In most instances, the stolen items are stashed away, never to be used. Some people go to the extent of donating the items stolen or giving them to family or friends, or if guilt eats them up, they secretly return them to the place they stole them from. “Urges to steal may come and go or may take place with greater or less intensity over the course of time. Most individuals with the disorder live lives of secret shame as they are scared of seeking mental health treatment,” she says. Although there’s no cure for kleptomania, treatment with medication or psychotherapy may assist in ending the cycle.