PSCU First Lady Margaret Kenyatta has said social protection is a fundamental human right and a challenge with a bearing not only on human health but also on the overall human development. While calling on all stakeholders to play an active role in the establishment of sustainable national social protection programmes, Margaret said she was glad that gender mainstreaming is now a dominant subject in many national social protection systems globally. Advocacy She challenged leaders to reflect on how they can use their influence to ensure the issue of social protection is responsive to the most vulnerable groups in their societies. The First Lady recounted her experience in advocacy, saying her actions resulted in the refocusing of national attention towards ignored areas of the health sector especially the primary causes of maternal and child mortality. “When I stepped into the role of being First Lady, it allowed me to start thinking about how this position could make a difference and change the course of our country’s future in the health arena,” she said. The First Lady spoke during the ongoing 63rd Session of the Commission on the Status of Women, at the United Nations headquarters in New York city. Vulnerable groups The theme of the side event was “The Power of Women’s Agency in Transforming Social Norm for Better Health Outcomes and Well Being.” She said her simple message that “No woman should die giving life’, resonated well with the masses thereby creating awareness on the health challenges that had long been an impediment to social protection especially lack of access to quality health care, information and education for women, children and vulnerable societies. Princess Mabel Van Oranje of Denmark who spoke through a video link commended the Kenyan First Lady for her initiative saying it has greatly helped women, children and the most vulnerable groups in society access quality public health services. Ford Foundation Vice President for International Programmes Martin Abregu said the foundation values partnerships that are aimed at offering long-lasting solutions to challenges facing vulnerable members of society.