With three matches left before the Kenya Cup enters the playoffs stage, the top six teams will be hoping to hold onto their positions. The top two positions look to have already been secured by log leaders Kabras Sugar and defending champions KCB who are both on 59 points, 15 ahead of third-placed Kenya Harlequins. With the top two sides sealing a direct ticket to the semi-finals, KCB and Kabras look to have pipped their rivals and it now remains an intense final three weeks for the chasing pack who will fight for the remaining four slots in the playoff quarter-finals. Kabras showed why they are one of the title favourites by thrashing Blak Blad 69-0 after crossing over the chalk 11 times with fullback Philip Wokorach—playing at fly-half—scoring a hat-trick to take him to the summit of the top scorers with 21 tries after 13 rounds. Hat-trick heroes Winger Felix Ayange also scored a hat-trick while scrum half Brian Tanga and centre duo of Nick Baraza and Mario Wilson added further tries. Eighth-man Claude Joanne also chipped in with two tries. Kabras’ win left them at the top of the 12-team log but they are tied with KCB who beat Nondescripts 50-5 to avenge the 27-22 first leg defeat that the Red Lions handed them in what was the bankers’ first loss in 20 months. Meanwhile, Harlequins held onto third spot with 44 points following their 22-22 draw with Menengai Oilers after a great comeback from the hosts at Nairobi’s RFUEA grounds. Nondies, on 41 points, also maintained their fourth position as Mwamba displaced Impala from fifth place after a 46-19 triumph over Homeboyz led by captain Collins Injera who notched a hat-trick, helping Kulabu avenge the 22-18 first leg defeat to the deejays. There was also another revenge mission completed when visiting Nakuru  humbled hosts Impala 20-15 to hold onto position six with 37 points while the Sarries dropped out of the playoff places to seventh, three points behind. Machine in danger The varsity derby featuring Strathmore and University of Nairobi’s Mean Machine was won 10-7 by the former courtesy of a converted try and penalty at Jamhuri grounds to leave the latter staring at a second relegation as they sit bottom of the log with just seven points.