Irene Githinji @gitshee Kenyans yesterday empathised with Kibra MP Ken Okoth moments after he shared a photo of him undergoing treatment for stage four colorectal cancer. The MP went public last month over his battle with the often terminal illness, even as he revealed it was diagnosed a bit late. He had been treated of ulcers and bacterial infection for more than a year and was even put on medication to manage stress. The MP, who shared the photo on his Twitter handle with a rider that he was “courageously battling the killer disease despite brutal nature of chemotherapy”, immediately elicited reactions from supporters and other Kenyans, who sent outpouring messages of quick recovery. Update on MP Okoth shared the photo on social media for the first time since he began treatment responding to a Twitter user, who had sought an update on how he was fairing. “Hallo Mheshimiwa @okothkenneth how are you fairing? You crossed my mind today. Am praying for your quick recovery,” the Twitter user, @WambuiBMW tweeted. The MP answered with optimism but admitted chemotherapy drugs are brutal. “Napambana na hali yangu kabisa (I am dealing with my situation). Chemo drugs are brutal on the skin and immune system,” he responded and uploaded a photo of himself looking somewhat frail. With @WambuiBMW asking him to stay strong saying: “Pambana kabisa Mhesh. Yote itaisha. Mungu analinda watu wema kama Wewe. Tunakuombea maisha marefu (Deal with it all, it will be over, God protects his good people. We are praying for you to live long).” And many more Kenyans wished him well in his recovery journey. Kamukunji MP, Yusuf Hassan encouraged him to remain strong and courageous. “Dearest Ken, our thoughts are with you as you battle with this disease. The whole of Kenya is behind you and sends you strength. You’re a fighter and I’ve no doubt that you will defeat it and emerge the victor. Be strong and courageous,” he said. Media Council of Kenya deputy CEO, Victor Bwire said: “All shall be well. Our continued prayers.” Former Kiambu Governor, William Kabogo wrote: “We are praying you get through this.” Another user, Lorna Irungu wrote: “Do you want to know the best thing about Winter? It’s that Spring is coming!” – Dr Kher. May these words, shared by my doctor during a very difficult time, keep you going. Keep fighting! Spring is round the corner.” Win battle Rob Jillo also wrote: “My brother all the best. MAY GOD give the strength.” “May the good Lord,come through for you, nothing is difficult to him. May you be healed in Jesus name!” wrote Massawe Japanni. National Super Alliance (Nasa) CEO Norman Magaya said: “Rooting for you my brother. Hang in there. The cancer doesn’t know who it has come up against. It will lose this battle.” “You are in my thoughts. I am praying for your recovery. Remember the Lord God is on the throne and He will heal you. Be strong big bro,” wrote Philip Etale. “May you continue with this strength and courage to face each day ahead of you. Bon courage,” wrote Roselyn Akombe. Okoth is one of the youngest MPs at age 40.