The proposed merger of Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA) and Kenya Airways was shrouded in secrecy with important information concealed by the State, Auditor General has revealed. Edward Ouko says in his findings to a request by the Public Investment Committee (PIC), that there was no evidence of Kenya Airports Authority (KAA) management and the board being involved in the Joint Cabinet Memorandum. Ouko while questioning the planned merger stated that while KAA reported operating revenue amounting to Sh16.9 billion and a surplus of Sh5.4 billion (after tax), Kenya Airways owed KAA Sh2.1 billion rising to Sh3.8 billion as at December 31, 2018. “As observed, JKIA accounts for nearly 83 per cent of KAA revenues and therefore a concession could deprive the authority significant amount of revenues,” he observes. Ouko says that his office has not been presented with a feasibility study which could have informed the Joint Cabinet Memorandum even though the letter from the Principal Secretary (PS) Transport stated that the Cabinet was seeking approval on actions Kenya should take to restore aviation competitiveness. Further, the Joint Cabinet Memorandum presented by Cabinet Secretary National Treasury and his Transport counterpart was not made available for verification. “A letter from the Head of Public Service to managing directors of KAA and KQ was not availed for audit verification,” Ouko says. The Privately Initiated Investment Proposal submitted by Kenya Airways was also not availed to the Office of the Auditor General for confirmation, he says. He further says there is no evidence shown that KAA ever prepared and submitted any proposal to the board and again no facts of any intervening exchange by KAA when the PS Transport communicated the decision of the Cabinet until the time when the Special Board of Directors was presented with the information. “The management has not satisfactorily explained why Restricted Procurement Method was necessary as opposed to Open Tendering when procuring the services of transaction advisor of a contract sum of Sh 150 million,” Ouko notes.