George Kebaso @Morarak Rapid extraction of earth, water and forest materials is the main contributor to climate change and biodiversity loss, The Global Resources Outlook 2019 report has said. The report, released yesterday during the Fourth Session of the United Nations Environment Assembly (UNEA4) meeting in Gigiri, Nairobi, warns that this will only worsen unless the world urgently undertakes a systemic reform of resource use. Sustainable economy Authors of the report observed that over the past five decades, human population has doubled and global domestic product has increased four times, but no action-focused efforts were being taken to avert the crisis. The report finds that in the same period, annual global extraction of materials grew from 27 billion tonnes to 92 billion tonnes, by 2017. According to the report prepared by the International Resource Panel (IRP), if the current trend continues, this will double again by 2060. It examined the trends in natural resources and their corresponding consumption patterns since the 1970s to support policymakers in strategic decision-making and transitioning to a sustainable economy. According to the report, “the extraction and processing of materials, fuels and food make up about half of total global greenhouse gas emissions and more than 90 per cent of biodiversity loss and water stress”.  By 2010, land-use changes had caused a loss of global species of approximately 11 per cent. “The Global Resources Outlook shows that we are ploughing through this planet’s finite resources as if there is no tomorrow, causing climate change and biodiversity loss along the way,” said Joyce Msuya, Acting Executive Director of United Nations  Environment. “Frankly, there will be no tomorrow for many people unless we stop.” Major investments Since 2000, growth in extraction rates have accelerated to 3.2 per cent per annum, driven largely by major investments in infrastructure and higher material living standards in developing and transitioning countries, especially in Asia. However, the wealthiest countries still needed 9.8 tonnes of materials per person in 2017, mobilised from elsewhere in the world, which is also driving this trend. By using data from historical trends, from 2015 to 2060, natural resource use is expected to grow by 110 per cent, leading to a reduction of forests by over 10 per cent and a reduction of other habitats like grasslands by around 20 per cent.