FRANCIS MULI Every day we wake up early and engage in the hustle and bustle of daily life, with an aim of earning some money for ourselves and the people we love. Sometimes we go beyond this and create more wealth, which sometimes we convert to property and savings. We might not tell our family members about the wealth we possess, but there comes a time we should. By disclosing your wealth, it does not mean you lose your right to it, but it is a security measure. Recently, there were news that one Jayne Muthoni had lost control over her property worth Sh1.5 billion to a renowned preacher. How true the reports are is not yet clear, but it is evident that the family was not aware of the “transfer”. Family members say that they found Muthoni in a frail situation when they visited her. In such a situation, she had no much control of her property, and anything could happen and the property lost. Maybe the situation could have been different if a section of the family members were aware of the property, and involved in a way. Here is guide on how and when to involve family members:- Create Trust You cannot disclose your valuables to a person you do not trust, so it is important to cultivate trust among family members. Make them feel appreciated whenever around you, as they reciprocate with trust. If it cannot happen do not yet reveal much about it. Instead, prepare a will to what happens to your property after your demise, after all no one can predict the future. Start with senior family members These are the people who know what to do in case you are not able to exercise authority upon the property. Some people only disclose their wealth to their children, who might not be in a position to act in case things go south. In such a case, write a will for your children and have someone you trust to be a custodian. Give shares or employment One would take care of property they know that they own, rather than something they know they would not benefit from. Also, some family members might fail to follow up your property for lack of a good financial muscle. By giving them shares and employment, they will defend the property that gives them livelihood when you are not able to act. Have a legally instituted chief custodian The role will be to give direction in case you are not able to act. Some family members may go to the extent of killing each other for your property for lack of a person to give direction. However, with a person to give direction, things might be a bit calm when you are incapacitated.