Seth Onyango and Murimi Mutiga @PeopleDailyKe The government has released Sh2 billion to facilitate drought mitigation efforts in 13 counties which have been worst hit by the prevailing dry weather conditions. Deputy President William Ruto assured the government has mobilised all the necessary support to ensure no Kenyan dies of hunger. Updating the nation about the famine situation, Ruto said 865,000 people require urgent relief with 1.1 million affected by drought. Drought He attributed the situation to depressed rainfall which has affected supply of pasture to pastoral communities and contributed to water scarcity. It comes amid media reports that 20 people have lost their lives due to drought in parts of Baringo county. National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) chief executive officer James Oduor, however, said while people have died, there was no evidence linking the deaths to drought. Ruto also defended the government response saying it has been better that in previous famine situation. “Assessment of situation shows we are better off than we were the last two years in terms vegetation cover, pasture, livestock condition and water availability,” he said. “There should be no cause for alarm. The National and County governments have put in place measures to ensure there are no casualties as a result of this drought.” Ruto said 13 counties including Samburu, Marsabit, Garissa, Isiolo, Mandera, Wajir, Baringo, Kilifi and Tana River are worst hit. Others are West Pokot, Makueni, Kajiado, and Kwale as well as other small pockets in the country. In Mombasa, Devolution ministry official said it was seeking an additional Sh6 billion from National Treasury to supply relief food to over one million Kenyans staring starvation in the face. Chief Administrative Secretary Hussein Dado, said a proposal for the funds has already been sent to the Treasury and is waiting for a supplementary budget to be approved by Parliament for the money to be released. Relief food He said the funds would be used to provide relief food to the affected families in the country following the drought that is causing havoc in the country.  Dado spoke after conducting assessment in Tana River county which is one of the counties affected. At the same time, Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula has called on President Uhuru Kenyatta to declare famine a national disaster. In a statement issued on Monday, the Bungoma senator urged the President to urgently deploy the army, police and other relevant government institutions to the ravaged areas to supply food and medical services.