Calvin Desouza Workshop Manager – Robbs magic Custom hot rod What inspired you? I was inspired by the hot rodding scene in the US and the rallying and autocross scene, so I just tried to combine my passions into something different for Kenya. In the local car scene, people are always trying to outdo each other, so I wanted to build a car that would set the bar impossibly high. How did it all start? It started with a Drift car I had, a Toyota Altezza. There’s not much in the way of drifting locally so I wanted a drift car, unfortunately that was short-lived as I had a very nasty accident that ended with the car completely totaled and me in the hospital. I had always had the desire to build a hot rod but never had that kick in the posterior to push me to do it. So when the accident happened, I was left with no choice. I didn’t have a car to use and I had all these parts lying around. That’s when I decided to use the remains of the drift car and make a hot rod. What was the build like? It started with a lot of sketches on paper and lots of daydreams, simply trying to figure out what I wanted it to look like. Once that was done I took it to our workshop where we laid out the engine and suspension on the floor so that we could measure the structure of the frame. That was the hardest part, making sure all the angles and measurements were correct. That process alone took us three months to get right. The ride height had to be a specific way, I wanted the seats to be a specific distance from the engine and most importantly, I wanted all the weight to hang in the middle. What was the purpose behind the build? It’s just a toy. The plan is to drift with it and go through a set of tyres every half hour. The original drift car was heavy and felt bulky so, I just wanted the same, but with much less weight and much more style. Furthermore, this build was also to show everyone in the tuning community, my friends and family and anyone out there that if you put your mind to anything you want to achieve, no matter how outrageous, that you can achieve it. Actually after the accident I was paralysed from the neck down and my family were just done with me spending so much money on a car and then crashing it. I had to really fight them to build it. This was to show them that this is me, I have been building cars since I was 16 and there’s nothing else I want to be. This is me.