You walk in and he’s the first you notice. His shirt, pants and shoes so white it feels like the very entrance to heaven. But you’re at a club somewhere around Kilimani. Then he  walks past you accidentally dropping  his scent. For a moment you hold onto his smell—a whiff of something masculine yet ironically subtle, because he’s that guy—complicated. To cap it all, he’s good-looking and he knows. And because he oozes some contagious charisma, seductive in some typa’ way, he’ll invite you at his table. They are not your kawaida you guy my guy. These ones have extra gold rings, gold chains, gold teeth if you may… a tad too flashy these ones. You die to know whether or not he can back it up. And sure thing, he’s loaded as hell and acts the part, this manly man. But he hangs out in packs… so six more khumundus, similar swag. They actually live together, you find out. And ooh, they’re pretty loud and have these funny accents. Enter Yahoo boys. These guys are like the rejects in their society back home—black sheeps if you may. They walk in packs and scam in packs. Those women who’ve made past the club to their homes will tell just how hard working these guys are. They sleep few hours and spend the rest on computers. Busy defrauding, scamming and doing these wash wash biashara. Then you’ll find our girls here worshipping the ground they walk on. Even borrowing an accent and cramming Naija songs word for word. Our slay queens here promised heaven not knowing these guys have zero emotion. His survival tactic? Never mix business with pleasure, at least not women. So my dear sistos, he will never settle down with you. So this ‘I go take you see my momaa’ is just a story. Maybe his momma disowned him long before he scammed some clueless individual to afford coming to Kenya. How do you even want to settle with a man who lives on scamming clueless humans? So if the universe runs out of clueless beings, he has no income? And if the last clueless person shows up, he squanders the money on girls, more gold chains rings, more gold teeth, c’mom ladies. One day, he’ll tell you his momma who lives in London wants to finally meet you and you need a visa. So, he has money held up somewhere, wire some serious amount of cash to him so he can organise a visa- for man and wife of course. That word wife will make you go gugugaga– some korogocho type of way and ting ting, you send your savings. And that’s when you’ll realise you were the last clueless human alive, that’s the last you’ll see, hear and smell Ukechuku.