Harrison Kivisu and Anthony Mwangi @PeopleDailyKe Kenyan doctors studying in Cuba are living in deplorable conditions and authorities in Nairobi and Havana have ignored their calls for help. Medical practitioners, family, friends and colleagues are now blaming the death of Dr Hamisi Ali Juma, on harsh conditions in Cuba. He is said to have committed suicide on Sunday. The family of the doctor claims their kin frequently requested to return home to attend to his sick son, but was denied permission. Juma was found dead in his hostel room. He was undertaking a masters degree in Family Medicine. The death has exposed the gaps in the Kenyan-Cuban deal that could have subjected Kenyan doctors to poor working conditions and mistreatment. It emerged that the 50 doctors had written to the National Assembly’s Committee on Health complaining that the Cuban government had shortchanged them and disregarded all agreements they signed. KMPDU Coast region secretary Abidan Mwachi claimed the doctors formally lodged a complaint with the Ministry of Health, saying the cost of living in Cuba was high and their allowances had been slashed from Sh144,000 a month to Sh36,000. Juma’s family said he had on several occasions sought a travel visa to allow him leave Cuba but his efforts were frustrated. The doctor had been threatened that he would be sacked should he abandon the Kenya-Cuban exchange programme. Tough times Health committee chairperson Sabina Chege denied receiving an official communication from the doctors over living conditions. “I heard that the doctors sent a WhatsApp message and were advised to write officially,” Chege said. Chege, however, acknowledged that doctors studying in Cuba were undergoing tough times. Chege told People Daily the doctors were housed in a hostel equivalent to a school facility in Kenya, an eight-floor building with no lift. She, however, disclosed that Health Cabinet secretary Sicily Kariuki would be appearing before the committee to explain the state of the Kenyan doctors in Cuba. Juma was brother of Likoni MP  Mishi Mboko. 