Photos: Gerald Ithana While many today associate beer and alcohol with immorality and western influence, the truth of the matter is, alcohol has always been interwoven into the African fabric. In the old days, elderly men would share a pot of local brew while regaling each other with stories and doling out free life advice. During bride price sessions, there would be an exchange of beer (in Kikuyu njohi ya mwana), which was normally given by the groom’s family to the bride’s family as a sign of gratitude. There were experts who were known for crafting sumptuous local brew that could probably rival the exquisite of the famed fare at Cana of Galilee. So, in the spirit of our handy and crafty ancestors, we go to Dari to learn the art of mixing cocktails, preferably in your home, from the resident mixologist Eric Ndambuki. We might not be able to use honey and sugarcane and make muratina, but we sure can learn how to make a mean vodka-based apple martini, fondly called appletini. Eric Ndambuki is more than glad to teach us the art. He is a proud – proud of his job that is – mixologist, who has been at it for over 15 years. His deftness of hands and the quick way he prepares our appletinis is testament to his vast experience in the industry. His love for the hotel industry started at a tender age as his dad worked with The Tamarind Group. He wanted to work in the kitchen, but the art of mixing drinks lured him to the counter. He then chose to apprentice in the bar, learning the art by eye and rote. Then, it was not named mixology, though it was still as much an art as it is today. He would later join Utalii and do a mixology course, after which he cordoned off a room in the house, that he terms his home bar. Here, he has all the equipment needed to build or shake a cocktail, as well as all the homemade syrups and alcohol he can make and buy respectively. This is where he experiments and masters the different cocktails he is inspired to try out, either after watching YouTube videos or after a meet-up with fellow mixologists. The family man loves his craft and is proud that he has learnt to balance the demanding work hours with family time. “As a mixologist, you might have to work nights and most weekends. Family time, therefore, has to be something you purpose for and schedule in your life. I have learnt to do that. It also helps that I have a supportive wife and understanding kids,” Eric explains. We sample our appletinis and bask in the perfect balance of sweet and sour. We beg him for the recipe and decide that we might just emulate him and build our home bar. This could be our first shaken cocktail! INGREDIENTS A double tot of your vodka of choice One and a half tot of apple sour One and a half teaspoon of lime juice Ice cubes Lemon juice An apple slice, a cherry and some sugar to garnish METHOD Chill the cocktail glass. Dip the rim of the glass in lemon juice then put it in some sugar to create a sugared rim. Put some ice cubes in a shaker then add the vodka, apple sour and lime juice and shake it all up. Strain the mixture into the glass. Add more ice cubes till the appletini is at the glass level you want. Garnish with an apple slice then top it all off with a cherry. Enjoy!