Fred Aminga @faminga Kenya Electricity Transmission Company (Ketraco) plans to solve Kenya’s electricity supply challenges by constructing 12,000 kilometres of lines by 2035. This is expected to cushion the country and boast economic growth. It will also go a long way to network Kenya to the nearest links to international power pools through Ethiopia, Tanzania and Uganda. Having completed 2,328km lines, the utility firm is currently in the market for a total of 2,508km of transmission lines with 4,300km of transmission lines in the list of priority pipeline projects. The agency recently completed and energised the giant 482km, 400kV/22kV Mombasa-Nairobi transmission line with a transfer capacity of 1,500MW. The current national demand stands at 1,700MW. Procurement stage Ongoing lines include the 617km, 500kV HVDC Ethiopia–Kenya line; the 100km, 400kV Kenya–Tanzania line; and the 300km, 400kV Olkaria–Lessos–Kisumu line. The National System Control Centre is in the procurement stage. Speaking recently to People Daily on the commissioned construction of a new power line offering an alternative path for power into the Nairobi Metropolitan region, Ketraco managing director Fernandes Barasa says these are the solutions to the ever-growing demand for electricity. Dubbed the Nairobi Ring Associated substations project, Barasa says the project entails construction of four substations to ease load from the available substations which are overloaded and involves building 220/66kV capacity substations in Isinya, Kimuka in Ngong, Athi River and Malaa. “The Nairobi substation project offers an alternative path to supply power into the Nairobi Metropolis to increase transformation capacity and remove load from the existing overloaded substations. It is expected that this will provide uninterrupted supply and enhance the social and economic development of the city and the country,” he said. National grid He said the project is part of plans to strengthen Kenya’s national grid and this particular substation entails creating a ring around Nairobi to reinforce the existing grid by building a 400kV line. Initially operated at 220kV, this will form the backbone of the future 400kV regional grid linking Ethiopia, Kenya and Tanzania.