The Supreme Court on Friday affirmed the conviction and 15-year jail terms imposed on two Iranians accused of concealing 15kg of explosives they allegedly planned to use to bomb the Israeli Embassy in Nairobi in 2012. In a majority ruling, the highest court in the land overturned the acquittal of the two foreigners — Ahmad Abolfathi Mohamed and Sayed Mansour Mousavi — by the Court of Appeal on January 26, last year on the basis that the case was pegged on circumstantial evidence. “The Court of Appeal erred in holding that admissions made by suspects in the course of investigations by the police are unacceptable in evidence,” Chief Justice David Maraga and Justices Jackton Ojwang, Njoki Ndung’u and Isaac Lenaola said. However, Justices Mohamed Ibrahim and Smokin Wanjala dissented and held that Mombasa Golf Club along Mama Ngina Drive, where the explosives were found in June 2012 was unguarded and anybody could have buried the consignment of explosives there. The prosecution had not provided cogent evidence to prove the case beyond reasonable doubt, they said. The two men, who have been detained at the Anti-Terrorism police Unit (ATPU) headquarters in Nairobi, were escorted to the Kamiti Maximum Security Prison to serve the custodial sentence before they are repatriated. On September 28, last year, the Supreme Court suspended their acquittal pending the outcome of the appeal. The court said the two men did not visit any tourist sites in Mombasa or hold business meetings with prospective partners. The police had arrested them in Nairobi after getting intelligence about their activities in the coastal town. The Supreme Court Judges pointed out that a bomb expert had explained to the trial court that the contentious cargo was the most lethal category of explosives used in modern warfare and could reduce skyscrapers to smithereens. Kenya had suffered terrorists attacks, which undermined national security, they said. Senior Counsel Ahmednassir Abdullahi, who represented the two foreigners, came under severe criticism for making “insolent, offensive, and careless remarks” against the bench “in a disgraceful and reprehensive manner.” Ahmednassir, a former chairman of the Law Society of Kenya (LSK), said he faced “a moral and ethical dilemma” to represent clients before the bench he accused of “bias and turning the law upside down.” He did not heed advice from Justices Maraga, Ibrahim and Njoki to stop making the accusations. The court had directed the police to detain the two men on the basis that Kenya and Iran did not have an extradition treaty and the foreigners were a flight risk in case they were released. The DPP, who was represented by lawyer Waweru Gatonye and Senior Counsel Edwin Okello, had provided convincing grounds that the intended appeal involved matters of general public importance and national security. The court had dismissed contempt proceedings instituted by the two Iranians against then  Inspector-General of Police Joseph Boinnet and ruled that they had not offered convincing grounds to demonstrate that their fundamental rights and freedoms had been curtailed while held under police watch.