 Former league champions Sofapaka left it late to beat promoted KCB 1-0 in a thrilling SportPesa Premier League match at Machakos Stadium yesterday afternoon. The priceless goal was scored in the 89th minute by the team’s top scorer Umaru Kasumba who made no mistakes from the spot after KCB defender Bethwel Warambo handled the ball inside the danger area. The tragic errors started with Warambo needlessly tripping John Avire outside the KCB goal area in the 88th minute. The duel The marauding Sofapaka forward was chasing an over hit ball which the other KCB centre half Michael Kibwage was in pole position to win, Warambo, however, chose to thwart Avire by bringing him down, gifting Sofapaka a free kick in a very promising area. Skillful midfielder Elly Asieche stood over the ball and floated a high cross which KCB custodian Adisa meekly punched back to play. He then opted to chase the loose ball towards the right corner flag and lost the ensuing tussle to defender Omar Moussa who had moved upfront for the free kick. Moussa after winning the duel with Adisa crossed into the box. Panic ensued as KCB desperately tried to stay safe with their goalkeeper outside the 18 yard box and up to six opposition players waiting for the cross. Sofapaka won the cross, Michael Oduor connecting his head with the ball. A desperate lunge by Warambo saw him block the ball with his right hand earning Sofapaka a penalty. Kasumba stepped up and sent Adisa the wrong way to score his seventh league goal of the season. There was no time to respond and KCB coach Frank Ouna left a devastated man, even snubbing his post-match-media obligations. Winner The bankers have made a habit of conceding late but this particular goal must have stung, especially after dictating play and relegating Sofapaka to second best. Their forwards, Ezekiel Odera in the first half and Shami Kibwana in the second just failed to make the most of chances and half chances created to break the deadlock by the bankers and were duly punished when Sofapaka scored the winner in the dying minutes. Elsewhere in Kericho, hosts Zoo FC downed Posta Rangers by a solitary goal to move slightly further from the dreaded relegation zone. Nick Ondari scored in the 43rd minute to give the Kericho-based side the lead then defended in the second half like their lives depended on it to claim just their third victory of the season. Twelve times Kenyan champions AFC Leopards also won on Saturday to move out of the automatic relegation area and now occupy the play-off spot. Playing against Sony Sugar at Bukhungu stadium in Kakamega County, Ingwe profited from an own goal early in the game and held on for three points.