Hillary Mageka, Anthony Mwangi and Mercy Mwai @PeopleDailyKe The escalating war of words between Deputy President William Ruto and ODM leader Raila Odinga turned toxic yesterday with the latter challengin-g the former to come clean on the dams scam. Their point of departure is the amount of money that  was forked out to ghosts for the phantom dams in Kerio Valley in the North Rift region —Sh21 billion as stated by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations or Sh7 billion figure given by the DP. In an off-the-cuff speech, Raila told Ruto to tell Kenyans what he knows about the Sh21 billion scandal that has already sucked in National Treasury Cabinet secretary Henry Rotich. “If we are talking about the theft in the dams project, don’t come and tell us it was not Sh20 billion, it was only Sh7 billion. Let the investigating authorities complete their investigations. Who are you to tell us? How did you know?”  he posed. He was reacting to the DP’s remarks last week during the State of Judiciary report release when he dismissed reports that Sh21 billion had been lost in Arror and Kimwarer dam projects in Elgeyo-Marakwet county, saying only Sh7 billion was in question. “It is a flat lie, the money in question is Sh7 billion and for every coin that has been paid, we have a bank guarantee, no money will be lost because we are a responsible government, we have engaged all arms of the government to ensure that public resources are safe,” said the DP. Community targeted But later in a paid advertisement in the local dailies, Rotich, who has been grilled for two days over the stalled dams scam, confirmed that nearly Sh20 billion has been spent as advance payment to begin building the two dams. And in Parliament, Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi was at it again  after he wrote a terse letter to President Uhuru Kenyatta seeking to confirm his claims that the fight against corruption is targeting individuals from one community. He cited cases which he claimed that individuals from the said community were sacked and prosecuted for crimes committed allegedly by others.When contacted, Sudi confirmed having authored the letter, adding that he stands by its content. Meanwhile, 12 female MPs yesterday told off  some of their colleagues from the Rift Valley over  claims that President Uhuru is involved in corrupt deals. The lawmakers declared total war on their colleagues whom they accused of fighting Uhuru. Led by MPs  Naomi Shabaan (Tavate), Gladys Wanga (Homa Bay county), Cecily Mbarire (Nominated), Lilian Gogo (Rangwe) and Beatrice Adagala (Vihiga), they said that they will not allow anyone to derail the war on corruption.