The push to control billions of shillings allocated for Universal Health Coverage (UHC) poses a threat to the programme as drugs and medical equipment dealers and politicians fight for a slice of the pie. Last week marked the start of the scramble for the Sh27 billion, which will be used to fund the ambitious pillar of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda. Under the programme, Sh7 billion will go towards improvement of facilities in counties while Sh22 billion will be allocated to  Kenya Medical Supplies Agency (Kemsa) for procurement of drugs and equipment. Following the launch of UHC by Uhuru, wealthy businesspersons allied to the ruling Jubilee Party administration are reportedly lining up to place tenders to supply Kemsa with the drugs and equipment. Amend law A source claimed the dealers had penetrated Parliament with intentions to have the law amended to end the monopoly accorded to Kemsa, as the sole supplier of drugs under UHC. “Top on the box is to push Kemsa out of the deal, which has placed the agency as the sole supplier of drugs in the programme,” said the source. The two houses of Parliament waded into the debate last week with calls to have distribution and delivery of drugs and equipment devolved and other players be enjoined in the deal. Kemsa, in UHC, has been tasked with ensuring provision of quality medical products at fair price, adequacy of essential medicines and supplies and delivery of the products in good time as requested by health facilities. The Senate on Wednesday debated on the role of Kemsa in the distribution of medicines in the country, while the National Assembly was convinced the agency has no capacity to support UHC. There were claims a Jubilee Party governor was among individuals, who have been doing business with Kemsa and will not let go without a fight. Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula let the cat out of the bag when he claimed that some honchos allied to the Jubilee administration have the monopoly of supplying drugs to Kemsa. “These individuals have made billions of shillings by selling drugs at uncontrolled prices to the agency, soon we will name them,” said Wetang’ula. He said the agency must be dismantled or devolved to allow other players to join the business if UHC is to succeed. “Kemsa is simply not capable of meeting the demand, the continued stranglehold of supply and distribution will kill UHC,” Wetang’ula warned. Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr claimed plans were underway for the Jubilee administration cronies to take the control of the supply of drugs to Kemsa under the UHC programme. Lowered prices The National Assembly Committee on Health raised reservations on the agency’s capacity to handle the programme. Committee chairperson Sabina Chege told the management of the agency that for it to succeed it will be required to change its mode of operations to match with current trends, especially on costing and delivery of supplies. Kemsa management had been invited by the committee to provide information on whether it has the capacity to supply all medicines needed by all hospitals in the country. Kemsa Chief executive Jonah Manjari, however, told MPs the agency has the requisite transport system in place to distribute supplies, and has  done a market assessment and brought down the prices of essential commodities, among others reforms.