Kinyuru Munuhe @kinyurumunuhe Detectives investigating the Sh21 billion phantom dams projects yesterday raided the National Treasury and carted away some documents. Sources said detectives will take the confiscated documents for forensic analysis as investigations into the scandal continues. “Yes, some officers from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) came here today morning, ” a senior official at the National Treasury disclosed. People Daily also established that the DCI officers are this week scheduled to grill Kerio Valley Development Authority (KVDA) managing director David Kimosop after it emerged that the money was paid without designs for both dams. Commercial contract Meanwhile, Water Cabinet secretary Simon Chelugui is likely to be the second member of the Cabinet to be grilled over the scandal. Also scheduled to be questioned are Cabinet secretaries Mwangi Kiunjuri (Agriculture) and Eugene Wamalwa (Devolution). Last week, National Treasury CS Henry Rotich was hard pressed to shed more light on his statement about the commercial contract and facility agreement that he  signed prior to the release of the unaccounted for funds. However, his lawyer Katwa Kigen down played the matter. “We needed to explain something on the relationship between the procurement process, the commercial contract and the facility agreement which we have done now,” Kigen said shortly after they stepped out of the interrogation room. The raid was made as records from Italy indicated that some of the beneficiaries of the Sh21 billion still have the cash intact in their accounts. Some individuals received the diverted colossal amounts of money in foreign currencies and have since confessed that the payments were deposited in their accounts without their knowledge. Others have opted to surrender but have been told it must be done in accordance with the law.This forms part of the evidence detectives are banking on to build their case and adduce a high threshold of evidence extracted from directors of 107 companies to whom the money was wired to. Substantial amounts of the Sh20.5 billion is still stashed in Italy, Spain and London while the rest was wired back and withdrawn in one of the banks in Nairobi’s Westlands area. The lucrative tender was awarded to controversial Italian firm, CMC di Ravenna that has applied for bankruptcy in Italy. Effectively, it means it is incapacitated to enter into or complete existing obligations and enjoys cover from creditors. Yesterday, Chelugui told People Daily he has is yet to be summoned at the Directorate of Criminal Investigations. He also exonerated himself from any blame in which Sh4.3billion was paid as advance payment to the broke company saying Rift Valley Water Services Board (RVWSB) is procuring entity and employer to the insolvent foreign firm. Chelugui further said CMC di Ravenna is yet to issue a status brief on the existing contract either to the board or to his office. “Rift Valley Water Services Board is implementing this project. No report has been issued to through RVWSB, the employer hence I have no brief.” Chelugui said. However, our investigations established the Directorate of Criminal Investigations officers are at an advanced stage. Concerns have been expressed that Kenyans are at a high risk of losing Sh4.3 billion in advance payment to CMC di Ravenna for construction of Itare Dam. ENDS………../