Mercy Mwai @wangumarci A parliamentary committee has accused the National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF) of favouring private hospitals in payment of claims. National Assembly’s Health Committee members claimed some staff members were colluding with hospitals to inflate costs and have their payments fast-tracked. The MPs were reacting to the revelation that NHIF owes private hospitals Sh2 billion compared to Sh789 million it owes public hospitals. First priority A list tabled before the committee shows that public health facilities under NHIF are 5,751 while those of private and faith-based facilities are 1,266. Private hospitals with the largest bills include Nairobi Hospital (Sh100 million), Aga Khan Hospital (Sh60 million), Mediheal Hospital (Sh18m), Getrude Children’s Hospital (Sh35 million), Coptic Hospital (Sh18 million) and Athi River Shalom Community Hospital (Sh19 million). The money is part of Sh33.5 billion total expenditure for the fund accrued in the last eight months of the 2018/2019 financial year against annual contributions of Sh 33.7 billion. But the Health Ministry Chief Administrative Secretary (CAS) Rashid Aman and acting NHIF chief executive officer Nicodemus Odongo told the MPs that private hospitals were receiving  higher figures because of the better services they offer. Better services Odongo, however, admitted that some officers have been interdicted for colluding with hospitals to fast-track clearance of bills. “We are taking steps to ensure that this does not happen again,” he said. Aman said the ministry’s aim is to ensure public hospitals are given first priority because they serve Kenyans in the lower cadre. “As a ministry, we are concerned that the issues raised are driving down the operational aspect of the fund. These issues are of interest to all of us especially on the overheads,” he said. Committee members led by acting chairperson, Keiyo North MP James Murgor, demanded that all hospitals table a list of all patients who seek treatment at their facilities “We need to know the numbers that go to public hospitals for treatment. What we are asking is why private hospitals are  being given first priority over public hospitals,” he said. Seme MP James Nyikal accused NHIF of serving private hospitals more efficiently than public hospitals yet a majority of Kenyans seek services in public facilities.