Anthony Mwangi, Fred Aminga and Mutwiri Muriithi @PeopleDailyKe Parliament was yesterday divided on the constitutionality of a report on the planned takeover of Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA) by Kenya Airways following a report tabled by the Public Investment Committee (PIC). Led by Majority Leader  Aden Duale and his minority counterpart John Mbadi, the MPs called on Speaker Justin Muturi to pronounce the report as null and void as it ventured outside its jurisdiction. Duale told the House that the public watchdog committee had no role in telling the executive how and when to implement its programmes. Mbadi said the takeover deal had not taken effect and therefore the committee had no role to “encroach” on the matter. The PIC chairman Abdulswamad Nassir directed that the takeover deal be halted until after Kenya Airport Authority (KAA) explains among other things, who initiated the deal, why they awarded the transaction advisor(s) a contract worth Sh150 million through restricted tendering and KQ’s ability to run JKIA. PIC had also asked Auditor General to conduct forensic audit on the contract to establish the real motive for the merger. MPs also instructed KAA to present to them all documents related to the transaction. Later in the day, Parliament Labour Committee asked stakeholders in the JKIA impasse to put their heads together and avert an economic crisis at the Nairobi hub. The committee said while picketing was within the workers constitutional right, they should resume genuine talks with Kenya Airports Authority and Kenya Airways under the umbrella of the conciliation mechanism initiated by Labour Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yattani on Wednesday. “Considering the strategic position of the aviation sector in the economy, further considering the losses both to the government, the general public and even international actors such as other airlines, (the union) calls off the strike and embraces dialogue,” said Ali  Wario labour committee chair. This will give a chance the Yattani’s three-member committee which is tasked with meeting the KAA and the union solve the impasse. The conciliation Committee is to be chaired by Sharif Adbulkadir Sharif and assisted by Dr Justus Tony Nasirembe and Linus Kariuki will assist parties resolve the impasse and file a report to me within 30 days. However, Kenya Aviation Workers Union (KAWU) said while they were ready for talks they had not received a formal invitation. They also urged the labour committee to help fast-track the release of KAWU Secretary General Moss Ndiema who had been arrested with  11 others following disruption of flights at JKIA on Wednesday. The Central Organisation of Trade Union (Cotu) also weighed in the matter calling for the immediate release of aviation officials held in custody following their detention. “We stand with the union officials during these turbulent times and lay emphasis that the concerned relevant authorities display the capacity to handle industrial relation issues amicably and with simplicity,” said Cotu Secretary General Francis Atwoli. He said Cotu would also take part in facilitating negotiations between the workers, KQ and KAA to end the stalemate and also called for the release of union officials arrested on Wednesday. Meanwhile, operations at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport were yesterday slowly returning back to normal with Kenya Air Force and National Youth Service personnel filling in positions for employees who had not returned to work