Kinyuru Munuhe @kinyurumunuhe National Treasury Cabinet secretary Henry Rotich was on Thursday night hard-pressed to come clear on his statement on a commercial contract and facilities agreement that was signed prior to the release of  Sh20.5 billion as partial payment for the construction Arror and Kimwarer Multipurpose Dams. The seven hours of grilling from 4pm to 11pm saw close relatives of the CS allowed to bring him supper  at 9pm in the grilling room at the Serious Crime Unit offices, Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI). His lawyer Katwa Kigen downplayed the matter that has put Rotich in a tight corner with possible prosecution. “We needed to explain something on the relationship between the procurement process, the commercial contract and the facilities agreement which we have done now and left the DCI,” Kigen said after Rotich left the interrogation room. However, detectives termed the grey areas in Rotich’s copy statement that required clarification and necessitated his being called back as “weighty”, a senior investigator said. Rotich said CMC Di Ravenna, an Italian-based firm which has applied for bankruptcy and risks going under with Sh20.5 billion Kenyan taxpayers money, was awarded the tender to construct the two dams through a government-to-government dealing. By filing for bankruptcy and insolvency in Italy, CMC Di Ravenna shields itself from creditors in a move likely to poke holes into the effectiveness of due diligence done to the contractor. The firm at the centre of what is believed to be a well choreographed graft allegedly owns the land that was being compulsorily acquired and pocketed the compensation money. Rotich confirmed that an advance payment of Sh7.8billion was paid out; Sh4.3billion for Arror and Sh3.5billion for Kimwarer. Documents presented further show an additional commitment fee of Sh900 million; Sh418million for Kimwarer and Sh490millon for Arror was paid out to CMC Di Ravena Another Sh10 billion was advanced to Service Assicurativi Del Comercio Estero (Sace) in two phases of Sh6 billion and Sh4 billion for Arror and Kimwarer dams, respectively. A counter fund kitty worth Sh900million meant for compensation and relocation of landowners cannot be accounted for.