Mercy Mwai and Eric Juma @PeopleDailyKe Members of the National Assembly from Jubilee Party and the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) yesterday told Deputy President William Ruto to warn his allies against hurling insults at President Uhuru Kenyatta. The MPs said they will not allow Ruto’s lieutenants to continue attacking the Head of State following his renewed fight against corruption. Consequently, the MPs dared Ruto and his team to quit from Jubilee and allow those interested in working with Uhuru to fight corruption deliver to Kenyans. The legislators rubbished claims that the Handshake between Uhuru and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga is the cause of divisions within Jubilee arguing that it has brought unity in the country. Dam scandal Their sentiments came even as ODM leaders, who spoke separately, told Ruto to record a statement on what he knows in the controversial multi-billion shilling Arror and Kimwarer dams project. Siaya governor Cornel Rasanga and senator James Orengo told the DP to present himself before the Director Criminal Investigation and record a statement on the dam scandal. The leaders who spoke on Saturday at Sega town, Ugenya constituency, claimed that Ruto, whose track record has been tainted with corruption has been hiding behind his community to evade accountability. “The war on corruption does not target any ethnic community as claimed by some leaders who have swindled tax payers money for selfish gains,” added Orengo. “If Ruto fails to record a statement with the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, I will lead an onslaught against him until he tells Kenyans what he knows. Nobody is above the law,” he said. And yesterday the MPs, who included Maina Kamanda (nominated), Mercy Gakuya (Kasarani), Simba Arati (Dagorreti North), Anthony Aluoch (Mathare), Robert Mbui (Kathiani), Paul Koinange (Kiambaa), Gathoni Wamuchomba (Kiambu), Ngunjiri Wambugu (Nyeri town), Joshua Kutuny(Chrengany) and Maoka Maore (Igembe North) told their colleagues that they will not allow them to continue insulting the President. Kamanda who spoke after attending a church service in Kasarani constituency, said those implicated in the dams scandal should be held accountable. Taking advantage “We started with the Handshake, you said you were being targeted, we went to lifestyle audit, then maize you still said you were being targeted now we are in dams and you are saying the same, it is only your people who are being targeted?” Kamanda asked Ruto. Arati and Oluoch said it is clear that some people were taking advantage of the situation to loot while Uhuru and Raila were busy uniting Kenyans. Orengo wondered why the DP was crying foul whenever State agencies were tightening against corruption. He claimed that petty politics being peddled by Ruto’s lieutenants was derailing the ‘Big Four agenda’. Orengo urged Ruto to focus on his role as Deputy President instead of engaging in supremacy battles.