Pre-eminent philosopher Albus Dumbedore is on record of having once said that happiness can be found in the darkest of times if one remembers to turn on the limelight. These sentiments are seemingly related to what AFC Leopards secretary Oscar Ogaida offered as the club  heads into the 15th Round of a SportPesa Premier League (SPL) encounter against Sony Sugar at Bukhungu Stadium in Kakamega today. Leopards are enduring a very frustrating spell in the league and and will have to find a winning formula to appease their disenchanted fans who are fed up with the indifferent results. In his own words, Igaida said that although the sleeping felines are gracing the lower reaches it is too early to write them off, adding that the team’s coach Ande Casa Mbungo is burning the midnight to ensure that positive results are realised. Igaida spoke glowingly of the Rwandese tactician’s capabilities, saying:”He (Mbungo) is an experienced tactician and I am optimistic that he can restore gloss to the floundering fortunes. It’s just unfortunate that the team has been losing matches but it’s not over yet until it’s over,” Mbungo is credited with having nurtured top-notch players in his native Rwanda among them Gor Mahia’s talismanic striker Jacques Tuyisenge and now that Leopards have lost six matches on a trot, his goose will be as good as cooked, at least in the eyes of the Ingwe faithful, if the team falters in Awendo. In the meantime, league table-toppers Bandari face Mathare United at Mbaraki Sports ground in Mombasa in what is easily the weekend’s highlight. Bandari are angling to write another piece of history in the domestic league will be hoping to win and subsequently build a five-point lead over second-placed Gor who are away in  Algeria for the return CAF Cup group stage return match against Hussein Dey of Algeria. In Machakos on Sunday, resurgent Sofapaka will be aiming for the scalp of Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) in yet another match that has all the ingredients of a thriller. Sofapaka coach John Baraza reckoned that they expect a tough match but nonetheless noted that they are ready for their opponents. “I am glad that the players are grasping the philosophy which I have implemented in the team.KCB is a great team which we should handle with extreme care,” offered Baraza. Elsewhere in Bungoma on Saturday, Tusker will be hoping to shake off a 1-0 defeat by Gor Mahia when they face hosts Nzoia Sugar.