Teeing off from the par four 10th in the afternoon when winds at Karen Country Club are at their worst, South African Jack Brar had a good round of golf as he returned an impressive seven-under par 64 to top the standings after round one of the Magical Kenya Open Golf championship yesterday. Tied in first place is 31-year-old South African Louis De Jager who managed a total of 30 in the first nine and a 34 in the back nine for a seven-under in the round. Brar, who is playing at Karen after a somewhat disappointing outing in Qatar where he finished T74 to miss the cut, leveled his first hole before posting back-to-back birdies at the par five 11th and 12th. The 22-year-old held par in the remaining holes for a total of 34 in the back nine. An eagle at the par five sixth and birdies at the par four seventh, eighth and ninth handed the Englishman the bragging rights at the end of the round. “Through the round, I got up and down when I needed to and then I was five under through my last four. That was a great way to finish the round. I have to just keep pushing on now as you can’t defend on this Tour,” Brar said after the round. European Tour card De Jager posted seven birdies at holes three, four, seven and eight and an eagle at hole nine for a first nine total of 30, having dropped a shot at hole two. The back nine had the VEA group player, who earned a maiden European Tour card for the 2019 season through European Tour Qualifying School, return a total of 34 for the final score. “I have been hitting well over the past two weeks and I did that again today (yesterday) but just managed to hole a few putts too. I played here last year on the Sunshine Tour, so I feel that I know the course quite well,” said Dejager. India’s Gaganjeet Bhullar returned a six-under par 65 after six birdies and level in the remaining 12 holes.  While Spanish Adri Arnaus and Northern Ireland’s Michael Hoey finished tied fourth at five-under par 66. Seven golfers tied for fifth place at four-under par 67 with the best Kenyan finisher Simon Ngige placed 13th after an impressive three-under par 68.