The National government has lifted the ban on mangrove harvesting and trading in Lamu county. The ban imposed in 2018 was informed by wanton destruction of mangrove forests for wood and building materials in the Lamu archipelago. Interior Cabinet secretary Fred Matiang’i made the announcement, saying the decision was reached in concurrence with his Environment counterpart Keriako Tobiko. Matiang’i said the government has decided to end the ban after taking into consideration the long suffering of residents. However, he urged loggers to plant more trees, particularly mangroves, as they cut them down. The island dwellers welcomed the announcement, saying mangroves are integral materials in construction and repairing of their buildings. The trees are also used in construction of fishing boats. Muslim scholar Sheikh Ahmed Msalam said: “Lifting of the ban is a welcome move that will in the long run lead to the improvement of residents’ living standards as their main economic stay is mangrove harvesting.” The CS issued logging licenses to 24 businessmen, who had sought permits to harvest the trees. “We are issuing the licenses to the traders with the rider that they should help Kenya Forest Service in mangrove restoration and management efforts,” he said at Mkunguni square during a public forum. Matiang’i was accompanied by the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) Noordin Haji, Coast Regional Commissioner John Elung’ata and Lamu County Commissioner Joseph Kanyiri. They were in the county for a week-long public forum themed “All for justice: closing the gaps service week”. The CS said the service week initiative was part of the National government’s efforts to ensure Kenyans enjoy better services from the State. He promised to ensure the police service focuses on delivering its core mandate of ensuring peace, security and the establishment of law and order in the country. Matiang’i also visited a modern drug rehabilitation centre at Hindi area, which was recently constructed by Kenya Red Cross Society. He said his ministry would offer support to the centre and extend help to 1,000 local youths fighting drug addiction. The CS said the government would not relent in the war on illicit drugs, adding that the focus would now be on barons and traffickers.