James Ngomeli Marketing budgets have been slashed by more than 30 per cent across board in Kenya and in some instances some have been scrapped. Why is the marketing budget  the first to be slashed in any organisation? Normally our budgets are reflective of past performance, not businesses needs or untapped opportunities. I believe previous results should inform  the future but allowing the past to entirely dictate the future is a terrible way to budget especially If you are focusing on growth. Hence marketing must respond to the current economic hard times and learn how to show value rather than be viewed as a cost centre. To get there marketers must understand customers. They must measure nearly every interaction an individual has with their products, services and brands. From the moment the prospect first comes in contact with your brand and through the entire journey of post –purchase, re-purchase and customer service experience, map out these interaction and form a hyper informed decision on the way forward. As critical as this aspect is, only four per cent have an integrated system analysing customer behaviour and attributing results to marketing and sales activities. Hence there is no way you can accurately estimate the need to fulfill your business objectives if you cannot access customer data. Leadership is critical in the marketing department. The department must have a well-rounded leadership that articulates the company goals and objectives. While many of the marketing leaders focus on the external market, they also need to spend more time with the internal customers to motivate them to achieve certain strategic objectives.  Unless you “market inside” then you will never achieve the buy in from leadership. As marketing is one of the most misunderstood cost centres in the organisation, its leadership must convince internal players of its importance. Analyse the  company’s data and interaction and keep  all the players informed. Interpret the customer data and advise the organisation Despite marketing budgets being slashed the area of innovation budget has grown but sits in other departments rather than marketing. Why is this happening? it is simply that you have no data ,yet the hub and drivers of innovation should be the marketing department because they are t first to  respond to customer needs and have the ability to do research and advise the businesses on the way forward. – The writer is a marketer. Email: james.ngomeli@gmail.com