Celebrations have subsided after Gor Mahia reached the last eight of CAF Confederation Cup on Sunday and now focus is on who they will face in the quarterfinal after today’s draw. K’Ogalo are just one of two sub-Saharan clubs to reach the last eight this season alongside Nkana FC of Zambia. Gor will find out their next opponent when the CAF Inter Clubs Committee converges in Cairo, Egypt to conduct the draw today. The team will, however, wait slightly longer to find out what punishment the continental body slaps on them after their supporters invaded the pitch in celebration after Sunday’s match. A financial fine is definite while a stadium ban on supporters could also be imposed. In today’s draw Gor will meet one of the three group winners, having finished second in Group D. K’Ogalo could be paired with RS Berkane of Morocco, CS Sfaxien of Tunisia or Al Hilal Omdurman of Sudan, all formidable teams. CS Sfaxien The Tunisian club staged an unblemished run in the group stage with three victories and as many draws. That run topped a formidable pool comprising Enugu Rangers of Nigeria, Salitas of Burkina Faso and another Tunisian outfit Etoile du Sahel. Sfaxien scored five goals in the group stage and only conceded twice, both at home while ensuring they kept clean sheets on their travels. A draw against them will be most problematic for Gor owing to their solidity. RS Berkane The Moroccan club is a relative minnow in continental football but defied their underdog status to stage a remarkable campaign. They topped a pool comprising two other Moroccan clubs in Hassania Agadir and Raja Casablanca as well as Congolese side Otoho d’Oyo. Berkane set an impregnable lead after five rounds of matches and only lost the last group game to Hassania Agadir, long after a quarter-final berth had been pinned. They scored 10 goals in the group stage and soaked in five. A duel against Gor would be a fair challenge. Al Hilal Omdurman Just like Gor, the Sudanese champions found themselves in the Confederation Cup after elimination from Champions League. Al Hilal went through a tough pool comprising Zambian teams Zesco United and Nkana as well as Asante Kotoko of Ghana. They won three matches, drew twice and only lost once, away to Nkana. With 11 goals scored and five conceded, Al Hilal are a strong team but beatable if K’Ogalo can rectify their away frailties.