Amos Abuga @PeopleSport11 Goals from Frank Wanangwe and new signing Calvin ‘Kanu’ Omondi helped defending Kenya Hockey Union (KHU) men Premier League champions Butali Sugar Warriors beat Chase Sailors 2-0 at the City Park on Sunday. The goals coming either side of the half gave Butali a perfect start to the season as they reiterated their intention to retain their title. For newcomers Sailors, the search for a first league win after their promotion now stretches to two games, having lost 3-0 to United States International University- Africa (USIU-A) in their first match of the season. Work in progress Sailors coach Timothy Kamar has admitted his is a work in progress, declining to rule his team will be judged by the two games played. “While USIU was our first match on the top flight, Sunday we played a star-studded champions side. To the team those are learning curves, one we have to take with us and improve on our next matches,” said Kumar. Stand-in Butali assistant coach Godfrey Wakachunga credited Sailors for better defending, tipping them to do better this season. “Without looking at the end results, I think it was a tight match. Sailors were playing a very defensive game, which suited them well. For us to get the win was a good start to the season where our main target is to retain title,” said Wakachunga. In other matches, in the other men’s premier league match, Wazalendo made a huge statement of their own with an emphatic 3-0 win over Greensharks over the weekend. Second half goals from Nelson Shilaku, Joseph Kuramah and new signing Danston Baraza helped the side get their 2019 season underway with bang. In Women’s premier league, champions Telkom did not have to break sweat as they were handed a walkover against Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology (JKUAT) after the varsity side failed to show for the match. It was a huge reprieve for the women’s record champions who last week were held to a barren draw by newcomers Amira Sailors. In another match, Kenyatta University and Sliders settled for a goalless draw. In the men’s super league, former premier league side Nakuru edged Wazalendo Masters 2-1.