Where did you meet? Michael: We are in the same field, and once worked in the same place. How long did you date and how was the proposal? Caroline: We dated for four years. Mike invited me for dinner at a hotel. He was with his friends, and I had no idea this was the day he would propose. It was all calm and normal and all of a sudden, right in the middle, he surprised me. Was the wedding planning challenging? Mike: We started planning as soon as the proposal happened. Everything is possible when God is at the centre of it all. It’s a heavy load, but it comes with blessings. A dream wedding is a project, so there is a cost to bear. You must prepare financially. We did not have a planner nor a committee, we only engaged a team one week to the wedding. We agreed to do it ourselves and this made it a learning process. Pooling together finances for the whole event, sourcing and evaluating service providers, as well as time was a challenge too. Did you like how everything turned out? Carol: Yes, personally, I enjoyed every bit of it. I don’t like bright colours, that’s why I opted for maroon and gold for the theme colours, which came out perfect. Our service providers and team leaders were perfect too! Mike: Maroon with gold was perfect, which I matched with slightly different colours for the outfits. One memorable bit for me was when we exchanged vows and I knew she was mine forever! Where did you source your suppliers from? Some were referred to us, others were our long time friends. I mostly loved our MC. I met him when he was starting out many years back, when I worked with him at various events. He has received Groove Awards honours among others. I knew his potential and he definitely made the day awesome. Carol: An MC is the glue that holds everything together at an event, and I wanted someone who would accommodate and unite people from different cultures, who is creative, happy and a good dancer to teach and lead in dancing. What is your advice to couples planning a wedding? Put God first in everything, and all you do will be a success.