Alvin Mwangi @PeopleDailyKe Self-proclaimed prophet David Owour is, yet again, in the mire of a fresh controversy, this time involving a multi-million-shilling estate of a church member. The family of Jane Muthoni has accused the cleric of brainwashing their kin in a bid to take control of her vast property.  Muthoni, reportedly quit her thriving legal career in 2014 and dedicated her life to serving in Owuor’s ministry, after the preacher allegedly ‘healed’ her dyslexic son Funding missions And four years on, Muthoni, who is said to own prime properties in Nairobi’s Westlands, Riverside and Kitengela, has developed a mental disorder so bad the church had to appoint an administrator for her property. “As the church, we have no interest at all. I came to assist Muthoni after I saw she was developing some mental illness. All her properties are safe and we have not even changed the names,” said Bishop Lily Macharia. But Muthoni’s family is reading mischief in all of it wondering why the church is rushing to take custody of her wealth instead of curing her perceived illness. “My sister has been funding their missions out side the country to countries such as Peru, Israel and Portugal. They are just using her,” Muthoni’s sister Alice Macharia said. She also alleged that Owuor has not only been using Muthoni’s expensive vehicles at will but that the posh lifestyle the clergy enjoys is all funded by his ailing congregant, either knowingly or unknowingly. But a senior church member rubbished the claims saying the church is wealthy enough to cater for its needs. Return documents “I can confirm that Prophet Owuor has never lived in any of the mentioned properties. While in Kenya, he stays at a very expensive house in Runda or we as the church decide to book for him a five-star hotel,” said a faithful only identified as Eng Maina said. Maina, who has been a member of the church for more than 10 years said the church thrives on contributions from well-wishers and the faithful’s who find it right. Detectives from Westlands have since cordoned off one of the posh building in Westland’s to investigate its contention. The church, however, said it will only return documents to Muthoni herself but not to any of her kin.