Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA)  has  been granted two days to file its response in an application filed by three companies, associated with billionaire Humphrey Kariuki, seeking to set aside preservation orders restraining them from withdrawing or transferring monies held in his 11 banks accounts over tax evasion claims. This is after KRA urged Justice John Onyiego to give it more time to file their replying affidavits in the matter before the hearing date. At the same time, Onyiego Friday directed the matter be heard before Commercial and Tax Division court on Tuesday as the case raises tax issues. In the case, Wow Beverages Limited, Wines of the World and African Spirits Ltd (ASL) want the court to set aside preservation orders restraining them from withdrawing or transferring monies held in the said banks accounts. This is after the Justice Onyiego late last month issued an order freezing the accounts pending investigations into the alleged Sh3 billion tax evasion. The three firms are further seeking orders restraining KRA from disrupting their businesses. “Court hereby issue orders restraining KRA, its officers, agencies, associates, partners and those acting through it from closing, interfering with, disrupting the business of three companies or issuing any demand, assessment or notice on the false account of the firms being involved in manufacturing of alcoholic drinks,” says the companies in court documents. The companies also want the court to issue orders directing KRA to provide the list of authorised officers, who conducted the raid, search and seizure on the companies’ premises and further provide the originals or copies of all documents, data, records, books of accounts and inventory for all documents seized within seven days. ASL, one of the largest alcohol manufacturing plants in East Africa, said the orders issued by Onyiego are crippling its business. The company said no evidence was placed before the court by KRA for the court to grant the orders sought. In a supporting affidavit filed in court by ASL director Peter Njenga Kuria, the company denied  Kariuki was its director. “Respondents are not involved in manufacturing but are importers of alcoholic beverages and no tax of Sh3 billion can be due from the respondents, who are not involved in any manufacturing,” says the company in court documents. KRA, while seeing to freeze the accounts, said that the companies have been supplying excisable goods with counterfeit exercise stamps hence evading payments of taxes. The taxman said the companies have in the course of carrying out its business fraudulently denied the the agency collection of colossal amounts of taxes, which it intends to demand. KRA claims  preliminary investigations conducted so far indicate Kariuki, through the companies, has evaded tax of up to Sh3 billion and investigations are still ongoing.