Kinyuru Munuhe @kinyurumunuhe With National Treasury Cabinet secretary Henry Rotich subjected to a second marathon grilling session by detectives over phantom dams’ saga yesterday, his case increasingly appeared destined for the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) desk. Sources close to Directorate of Criminal  Investigations intimated that detectives, who have thrice grilled Rotich over the approval of Sh20.5 billion to the bankrupt Italian firm CMC di Ravenna for the construction of two dams in Kerio Valley, are crafting a case that could pin down the CS on abuse of office charges. Executive authority The other option on the table for investigators probing the Sh63b billion stalled dams saga is to build a compounded case of conspiracy to commit economic crime and abuse of office. But whatever the case, the big decision will now be made by DPP Noordin H-aji. Just like Tuesday when CS Rotich was interrogated for more than 12 hours, yesterday he arrived for interrogation at Mazingira House at around 9am and remained holed up there untill late in the evening. His lawyer Katwa Kigen had arrived at the venue at 6am.  Detectives are also scheduled to quiz National Treasury Principal secretary Kamau Thugge, the ministry’s accounting officer, to corroborate evidence presented by the CS. According to sources, Rotich has been adversely mentioned in the loss of Sh20.5 billion payout advanced to bankrupt Italian firm for the construction of Kimwarer and Arror dams in Kerio Valley, in his home region. “As the ministry’s accounting officer, it is important to have his (Thugge) side of the story notwithstanding that the CS has executive authority over the PS,” our source said.  Others lined up for interrogation — and possible prosecution — include top Kerio Valley Development Authority (KVDA) managers David Kimosop (managing director), William Maina Kiprotich (procurement manager) and Paul Serem(engineer). The four bear the greatest responsibility for the unaccounted funds with what investigators consider credible evidence pointing to negligence and fraud. Due diligence factor Although the CS provided documentary evidence of the supporting documents and allocation of the contested kitty, he has been unable to clarify who was the primary beneficiary of the diverted cash and payments of contractors and suppliers and items not related to dams construction. Out of the Sh20.5 billion paid to CMC di Ravenna, Sh7.8 billion was meant for advance payments for both dams, Sh900 million as commitment fee, Sh10 billion as insurance premium fee to Service Assicurativi Del Comercio Estero (Sace) and a counter fund kitty of Sh900 million for compensation and relocation of landowners, all of which cannot be accounted for. Asked to explain the nature of contractual obligations Kenya entered into with the Italian firm, Rotich was emphatic that it was a government-to-government deal, an explanation he had also given in a paid advertisement in the dailies. “It is important to note that the financing agreement for the projects was government-to-government. Service Assicurativi Del Comercio Estero (Sace) is an Italian government-owned entity (Export Credit Agency, 100 per cent owned by the government of Italy), providing insurance cover and financial support. Government-to-government is defined in the amendment of Public Finance Management (PFM) Act, 2015,” Rotich explained. Conduct probe By filing for bankruptcy and insolvency in Italy, CMC di Ravenna shields itself from creditors in a move likely to poke holes on the effectiveness of due diligence done on the contractor. They presented documents required since he (Rotich) was a signatory for the Kenya-Italy government-to government contract valued at Sh63 billion.  According to KVDA records, Arror and Kimwarer dams were to occupy 8,000 acres of land— 400 of which was forest land to be acquired from the Kenya Forest Service (KFS) in exchange for 570 acres of private land. The ground breaking ceremony was set for last September and the bankrupt contractor flew in 17 engineers from Europe for ground work which did not materialise because KFS board declined what they considered non-procedural appeal since the said forest had not been degazetted for surrender as required by law. “KFS board of directors in the meeting held on January 14 resolved not to approve the authority’s request for land to construct dams in forest areas. Acting KFS Acting Chief Conservator of Forests Monica Kalenda in a letter to KVDA boss Kimosop rejected request to conduct geotechnical investigations on Chesoi Forest and Kipkabus Forest for development of Arror and Kimwarer dams.