Irene Githinji @gitshee The Sixth Annual  Devolution Conference in Kirinyaga county ended yesterday with a resolution that public officers implicated in corruption should step aside. But this came with a rider that investigative agencies shall strictly follow the law in execution of their mandate. The resolution comes in the wake of outcry from the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) Noordin Haji, Director of Criminal Investigations (DCI) George Kinoti and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) that high-ranking officers have continued to remain in office even after being charged. The three institutions have cited the former chairman of National Land Commission (NLC) Mohamed Swazuri and Migori Governor Okoth Obado who continued to serve after being charged. The gathering also  agreed to amend laws towards a coordinated approach to fight graft. It was unanimously resolved that the Penal Code, Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act among other laws which dwell on graft be amended in the next one year. “The Penal Code and the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act, among other laws, shall in the next one year be amended in order to strengthen enforcement of laws and enhance collaboration and coordination of all agencies in the war against corruption,” read a communiqué of the conference. Consequently, it was resolved that all State officers and public officers, who are charged over  corruption scandals step aside, moving forward. “Investigative institutions shall strictly follow the law in the execution of their mandate,” it was further resolved. The delegates further agreed that both levels of Government operationalise existing Performance Management Framework in the next six months. It was also resolved that Article 203 (3), providing that audited accounts be approved by National Assembly shall, in not more than an year, be amended to ensure timely approval of audited accounts. Both levels of government will develop strategies to reduce the cost of doing business in Kenya.