Irene Githinji @gitshee Water Cabinet secretary Simon Chelugui yesterday denied his ministry’s involvement in the controversial dam project which has seen billions of shillings of taxpayers money lost. Chelugui also denied abuse of office claims and that he is under investigations over loss of billions to dam projects. He took time to explain the status of dams under construction in light of recent reports alleging mismanagement of funds leading to a loss of about Sh90 billion in three dam projects namely Arror Dam, Kimwarer Dam and Itare Dam. Absolving himself from blame, Chelugui explained Arror and Kimwarer dams are being implemented by Kerio Valley Development Authority (KVDA) domiciled in Ministry of East African Cooperation and Regional Development and not his ministry. The CS assured the government has put in place sufficient contractual safeguards, which allow it predict all possible contractor behaviours to ensure that no public money can be lost during project implementation. “I reassure Kenyans that under my watch, there has been no abuse or misuse of public funds. Contrary to some media reports, I have also not been summoned to record any statement by the government agencies mandated with implementing the fight against graft,” said the CS in his office. Chronology of activities He explained the chronology of activities for dams under his watch. For Itare dam, the CS said it was first conceived in 1986 and included in the National Water Master Plan of 1992 as a long-term source of water for Nakuru town and its environs. In 1998, the government completed the feasibility studies in which it confirmed technical and financial viability of the dam project. It was, however, not immediately implemented as funding had not been secured. In 2011, in view of the sharply rising water demand in Nakuru town, the government revived the studies and sought the services of a consultant. The CS said by Rift Valley Water Service Board advertised tenders for implementation works in February 2014 in which eligible contractors with ability to mobilise funds were invited.