Amos Abuga @PeopleSport11 Parklands took an early lead in the standings of the Kenya Hockey Union (KHU) men’s premier league after edging United States International University – Africa (USIU-Africa) 3-2 in the only top-flight match at the City Park Stadium. The match lived up to the billing between Parklands, fifth place finishers last season, and the students who were sixth. Brian Kipkorir drew first blood for the students, a brilliant field goal that gave USIU-Africa, a 10th minute lead. With 15 minutes on the clock, forward Allan Odongo pegged the students back, before Dan Onyango and Erick Kidwaro further extended the winners margin, Neville Mulupi’s late goal for the students came too late. The Thika Road-based higher learning institution will have a chance to have their first points of the new season when they play newcomers Chase Sailors at the City Park Stadium this evening. Took command Strathmore University’s Scorpions took command of the women’s premier league after mauling Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology (JKUAT) 9-0 also on Sunday. It was a perfect start for last season’s runners-up , interestingly  with record champions Telkom not in action in week one of the 2019 season.  Telkom will open their title defence against Amira Sailors next Sunday. Striker Gilly Okumu, was in her perfect mood finding the back of the board on five occasions to help the Meshark Senge stroll in the park. Ruth Adhiambo with a treble and a solo goal from Yvonne Karanja, completed the baptisms of fire for the JKUAT. Shocking Senge, expressed his satisfaction, after the match. “The ball is now rolling, I could not have asked for a better manner to start the league. Importantly the ladies dominated from start-to-finish.” Park Road Badgers commenced their life in the men’s Super League with a bang after thrashing Kenya College of Accountancy University (KCAU) 3-0.  Ian Oyale scored a double with Gordon Odour scoring another for the victors. In the women’s super league, Multimedia University lost the other opening two matches, first a 6-0 humbling at the mercy of Vikings on Saturday, before an equally shocking 1-0 defeat, courtesy of newcomers Oranje Leonas.