The power of social media is once again acknowledged for highlighting a viral short video where a Meru Shuttle Company crew was captured harassing and throwing out a woman and a minor at Kenol after the lady refused to share her seat to give room for excess passengers. Purity Mbugua, the victim, was on her way from Mwea to Thika town accompanied by her son. On the back of the driver’s seat, they was a pregnant woman with a seven-year-old child, an elderly woman of around 50 years, Purity and her son. The unruly crew of the 14-seater matatu named ‘Penda chips, penda mimba’ insisted on adding excess passengers into the matatu, which was already full to capacity. The long controversy ended when she was forcefully left stranded with her son and luggage at Kenol. When she claimed her Sh50 balance, the tout became rebellious, a habit that is shown by many touts, and which forced the other passengers to intervene. When Purity said that she would pursue legal action against the crew, they responded by telling her that they have dealt with so many passengers and that they do not care, urging her to take a snapshot of their number plate and go with it to report the incident. On section 63 of the Traffic Act concerning the conduct of driver and conductor, sub-section[a]states that they should behave in a civil and orderly manner and [c]shall take all reasonable precautions to ensure the safety of passengers entering or alighting from the vehicle. Consequently, children’s rights were also flouted in this instance. Most touts would consider them as unnecessary baggage in a public service vehicle since they do not pay fare. According to the traffic Act section 89 concerning children, a child who is under the age of five shall not count as a passenger and [b] two passengers, each with between 5 and 12 years of age shall count as one. Any person that contravenes this part shall be guilty of an offence and liable to a fine not exceeding Sh600 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 months, or to both.