Amos Abuga Team Kenya captain Geoffrey Kamworor says the team is motivated to produce excellent results during the 2019 World Cross Country championships slated for Aarhus, Denmark on March 30. Speaking as the team of 30 commences their valedictory week at the Kigari Teachers Training College in Embu County, the two-time world champion adds the team has received satisfactory support from the federation ahead of the biennial games. “Psychologically we are psyched up to go to Denmark and run for the country.  Everyone upbeat ahead of the game,” said the men’s senior 10km defending champion from the 2017 championships held in Kampala, Uganda. Junior team “The spikes and full kits was delivered during our first week of camp, local allowances were also paid in full by AK. What is now remaining is the government’s part that will be paid while we are oversees,” said the captain. In Denmark,   Kenya will be up to defend both men and women 10km titles as well as the mixed relay title and the overall crown, the captain reiterating the need to work on winning the junior races as well. “The juniors are learning well from the senior members of the team, they know the magnitude that comes with donning national flags, I can tell they are equally up to task,” he added. The junior teams last week witnessed the exclusion of Kibet Kandie and Agnes Mwikali, the duo was replaced due to age related issues. Their places were taken by 2017 World U-18 2,000 steeplechase silver medallist Cleophas Kandie and  Mercy Cherop, in the 8km junior men and 6km junior women races respectively. Clean running Meanwhile AK boss Gen (Rtd) Jackson Tuwei, Riadha house will continue to speak against the vice of doping while advocating for cleaning running in all events. “As AK, we  are in the fore front in lauding the good work Anti-Doping Agency of Kenya (ADAK) is doing. I want to make it clear that before you leave for the competition everyone of you will be required to fill in a consent form and this will not only  be in the Cross Country but also in all competitions,” Tuwei ordered last week during the official launch of the residential training camp. The national team under Coach David Letting has been at the traditional Kigari Teachers Training College residential camp since March 1 and are expected to camp until March 25 before leaving for Denmark on March 27.