Seth Onyango @SethManex President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Somali counterpart Mohamed Abdullahi have agreed to end the diplomatic row over ownership of disputed maritime territory in the Indian Ocean. The move followed mediation by Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed in Nairobi, yesterday, where the two Heads of State agreed to bury the hatchet. Abiy arrived in Nairobi on Tuesday accompanied by Somali President for talks with Uhuru aimed at quelling simmering diplomatic tensions between the two neighbours. President Uhuru and Abiy are said to have discussed the matter briefly on the margins of the Kenya-Ethiopia high level trade forum in Addis Ababa last weekend, in a diplomatic strategy engineered by Foreign Affairs Cabinet secretary Monica Juma and her PS Macharia Kamau. Abiy’s intervention is the latest in a raft of measures adopted by Nairobi in a bid to amicably resolve the dispute with Somalia. Hours after the two countries struck a truce, Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula  hailed the  talks between President Uhuru, his Somalia counterpart brokered by the Ethiopian Prime Minister geared towards solving the maritime border dispute. In a statement Wetang’ula said the move was progressive and ensures peace and stability in the region. “I want to thank and congratulate President Uhuru Kenyatta of Kenya, President Farmajo of Somalia and the Ethiopian prime minister  for meeting in Nairobi to discuss and address  the issue of the simmering territorial boundary dispute in the Indian ocean between Kenya and Somalia,” he said. Sufficient structures Wetang’ula said the region had sufficient structures for dealing with diplomatic matters  including conflict such as IGAD and AU that needs to be exploited before moving to international courts. Kenya and Somalia have been embroiled in a five-year maritime border dispute after the latter sued it at the International Court of Justice for alleged unlawful operations in the triangular territory. In 2015, Kenya challenged the jurisdiction of the ICJ to hear the case as well as its admissibility. But in February 2017, the court quashed Nairobi’s plea, affirming its suitability to hear the case with hearings scheduled for September this year. Both nations lay claim to the territory covering an estimated 100,000 square kilometres of the Indian Ocean with the land beneath it purportedly holding vast deposits of oil and gas.