Lynette Matheka National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB) men are the Kenya Handball Federation (KHF) premier league champions ending a four year drought. The millers played their last fixture against a hard fighting Black Mamba and picked a 23-18 win to hand them the title unbeaten. At a fully packed Kaloleni Grounds,  the home team,  Mamba took a 5-3 but Cereals equalised at 5-5 to make it a one-goal match most of the half.  A last minute score by NCPB’s Elvin Otieno and a poor clearance by Mamba’s Nicholas Mikan leveled the score at 9-9 going to the breather. Two defensive blunders from Mamba handed millers a 13-11 in the first five minutes of the second half which they extended to 17-13. Mamba failed to recover from the four-goal gap in time with the match ending 23-18. “We had too many turnovers and they cost us the match.  My players also failed to keep to our game plan and we lost,”  said Mamba coach Martin Abunde. His opposite number was delighted to clinch the title after a long wait.  “We are happy for the win and for the title after a long wait. Our strategies worked and the players were also eager to lift the title after missing out last season in the last match, “ said NCPB head coach Dunstan Eshikumo. In the match pitting Strathmore University and Ulinzi, Peter Mwathi’s Strathmore were the better side from the onset,  outplaying the soldiers on all fronts to make an otherwise tough Ulinzi seem like minnows as the varsity side won 30-18. Kelvin Obunga and Maxwell Munene were unstoppable as they fired the varsity side to the win with seven and six goals respectively. Ulinzi’s marksman Nicholas Ireri managed six goals as well but his goals couldn’t help the soldier to what could have been a title winning victory. “This was a crucial match for us and we came prepared for a win. Our defence worked well. I kept changing the formation and our opponents could not figure out what our play was and that won us the match. We are banking on the same to win us the championships,” said Mwathi.