Zachary Ochuodho @zachuodho Capital Markets Authority (CMA) board has issued a show-cause letter to three individuals accused of participating in the insider trading on KenolKobil shares at the Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE). The three Andre DeSimone, Kestrel Capital Executive Director, Kestrel Capital chairman and Founder, Charles Field-Marsham and their stockbroking agent, Aly Khan Satchu have been told to appear before the board and make any submission before their case is decided. Insider trading is defined as an illegal transaction on the stock exchange to one’s advantage through having access to confidential information. “The recipients of the notices to show cause have been granted an opportunity to formally respond to allegations made against them and to appear before the CMA Board to make any submissions before a determination is made,” the statement said. Meanwhile, the board in the statement also said the investigation did not establish evidence of potential misconduct with regard to the KenolKobil chief executive officer, David Ohana. “No enforcement proceedings will, therefore, be initiated against him,” it said. Capital Markets Authority also disclosed that it has recovered Sh458 million acquired through insider trading on KenolKobil shares by unscrupulous traders. The surrendered funds constitute 90 per cent of the amount identified through a total of 14 accounts that were frozen in October 2018 to facilitate forensic investigations. The recovered funds will be paid into the Investor Compensation Fund. Investigations show that a number of investors had been advised and encouraged to trade KenolKobil Plc shares based on what may constitute material price. The investigations relating to the balance of the accounts flagged in connection with suspicious trading activities are ongoing. Insider trading is an offence where a person in possession of privileged information which is material, price sensitive and non-public information either trades in securities relying on the information, discloses the same to another person who trades based on the information or encourages someone else to trade.