Fred Aminga @faminga Safaricom is a rare gem for Kenya’s women folk in many ways, named best employer in Africa and 67th in the world by Forbes business magazine after ranking some 500 publicly-traded companies from 60 countries, the telco had another one coming. From the firm’s annual report Safaricom employs about 6,000 staff members averaging 27 years as at end of March 2018, half are women. Not many firms can match that in Kenya, and most of Sub-Saharan Africa, particularly blue chip companies. Leadership positions Whats more? Safaricom aspires to create more opportunities for women to transition into leadership positions so that by 2020 the proportion of women in senior management improves from the current 32 per cent to match that of men. Paul Kasimu, the chief human resources officer says Safaricom is keen on gender equality. “Fifty-two per cent of our staff consists of women. We have engaged in various initiatives to empower and create opportunities for our women colleagues. Last year, we collaborated with Mowgli Mentorship, a UK-based firm to provide mentorship to the women in Safaricom in a bid to increase the number of women in leadership in our organisation and to enhance capacity building. This mentorship programme is as a key initiative to increase above 50 per cent the female representation within Safaricom management by 2020,” he says. One year ago, Safaricom made a commitment to work more with women-owned enterprises and special interest groups to increase the value of business sourced from them to 10 per cent in the next three years. During the launch of the Safaricom Women in Business Initiative, it was reported that out of more than 1,000 suppliers, only 27 were women. The number has since risen to over 100 since the initiative. Safaricom provides four months maternity leave for nursing mothers to give them ample time to spend with their new borns. In addition, the telco also offers Flexi-hours for nursing mothers. Sylvia Mulinge, who is currently Safaricom’s chief customer officer, points out that generally, the issue of gender imbalance has been a sticking one especially for women in the corporate world. Corner offices “I am a strong believer that women are just as capable as men and rightfully deserve to occupy corner offices,” she says. Fear really holds many women back and prevents them from seeking opportunities, simply because many feel that they are not up to the challenge, says Mulinge. “Life is not about survival, it is about expansion. Life will bring you many opportunities, so be ready to seize the day. Your ability to be able to step out of your comfort zone and into the unknown, will expand or shrink based on your level of courage,” she adds. She advises women to be confident in their skin and comfortable with themselves and never forget that “you are enough”. Mulinge says more and more women are occupying leadership positions as more firms see the benefits of recognising and rewarding female talent. She says women are always kept to a higher standard than men, which is “very biased”. “For a man, failure is viewed as an anomaly, while for women it is considered to be the norm. One woman’s failure is equated to the shortcomings of the entire female gender, while for men the issue is either ignored or considered a personal shortcoming of the individual,” she says.