Bernice Mbugua @BerniceMuhindi A man has petitioned the Judicial Service Commission (JSC) seeking the removal of Chief Justice David Maraga from office over claims of gross misconduct. Yussuf Dimbil, through Charles Koech and Associates, wants Maraga investigated by JSC and the findings forwarded to the President for consideration of a tribunal to investigate and make a determination on the matter. Dimbil accused Maraga of attending political rallies, employing people from one ethnic group at the Judiciary and making utterances that are unconstitutional. “A human resource audit of the office of the Chief Justice will indicate 85 per cent of the workforce being drawn from Kisii community where the CJ hails,” he said in the petition, which has been received by JSC yesterday. He said Maraga has been spotted several times attending political rallies organised by the Presidency, especially in Kisii and Nyamira counties, bringing to dispute the office of the Chief Justice. According to the petitioner, the Chief Justice on March 2, while attending a church service at Egerton University, said the newly-appointed Education Cabinet secretary George Magoha did not need to undergo vetting in order to assume the said office. “This shows utter disrespect and disregard of the rule of law,” said Dimbil. Dimbil further wants the Chief Justice investigated over the 2017 presidential election petition and Wajir and Laikipia  Governor’s election petitions. In the presidential petition,  he claimed Brian Onderi, an advocate of the High Court, was on record as being in the matter yet he is the nephew  of the Chief Justice. According to the petitioner, Onderi was also on record at the trial stage, together with Omwanza Ombati, in the contested Wajir Governor’s petition. Dimbil also accused Maraga of appointing Justice Alfred Mabeya,  a member of the Kisii community and a friend of Ombati and Onderi to hear the Wajir petition at the High Court. “The manner in which the Chief Justice conducted himself in the above mentioned petitions lodged in the Supreme Court is evidence of incompetence and a violation of the constitution,” he claimed. According to Dimbil, the CJ is a captive of Senior Counsel Ahmednasir Abdullahi. He wants the CJ to recuse himself from being part of determining the petition.