Hillary Mageka @hillarymageka A city lawyer wants Court of Appeal judge Milton Makhandia investigated for alleged violation of the Constitution, incompetence and gross misconduct. George Miyare, of Kaluma and Miyare advocates, is accusing Justice Makhandia of giving two conflicting judgments in a land suit case involving Florence Seyanoi Kibera, alias Dorothy Seyanoi Moschion, vs Deborah Acheing Aduda and Rene Johny Dierkx. The petitioner says the ruling exposed his client’s land in Karen to unlawful trespass, possession or occupation by and/or transfer to the respondents in the execution of the judgment of the Environment and Land court. Imminent losses “This is to urgently draw your attention to the foregoing complaints, and seek your intervention in the matter to forestall imminent losses and injustices to the applicant while the the court is seized of the subject matter on appeal and to guarantee our client a fair hearing,” Kaluma and Miyare advocates’ letter to the Court of Appeal President William Ouko reads in part. The letter was copied to the Chief Justice David Maraga,  Law Society of Kenya (LSK) and the Ethics and Anti-corruption Commission (EACC). Miyare said the Court of Appeal abdicated its jurisdiction and failed to consider or determine the application for injunctions which was within the courts’ original jurisdiction. Fair hearing Further, he states that the  court failed to consider settled principles for the determination of applicants under rule 5(2) (b) of the Court of Appeal rules and took into account irrelevant factors, hence denying the applicant fair hearing. “The court decision and the conduct herein above reek of compromise, and they confirm information in the public domain at Karen Shopping Centre obtained by our client after hearing sometime around November/December of 2018, that the respondents had schemed to compromise the court to rule in their favour,” he alleged. The accuser claims that due to the judgment, a Ms Njeri, who purported to be from the Surveys of Kenya and representing the Director of Surveys, visited and/or trespassed on the suit land on March 9, 2019, following the ruling, with the aim of surveying and excising a portion in the execution of the judgment “Our client is thus aggrieved by the said conduct and the decision of the court,” Miyare says. nam, ea vel mos et exerae rehenimusda del inulpari debis et audae voluptatiur aut qui bla volut rest, exceres sincta velitis el iuressit que vel iundellor ant as siminus andesti impore est fugia sum volorpo ribusam destotatur aris modi andi adi ommodi saperum consequis et optat licium utet, tempori busape liciis esequae voles vere, sequam ut labo. Sed untia pari autEquo moloris tionem. Nam, quam eum fugita vellabo rerrorruptis eosamus unt aut optas eaquae magnatur? Poresed mi, occuptur rest, omnimus experiorro dis ut quo volore, quis maximinus. Nem que sum quuntemquae audipsa vita sum, aut eario. Itaeste dolore, ut audaerf erumqui beatem abor adis unt que porempos quam facia quatem rendusdae. Itas num esectium corecabores num erunt volecera nia volupta turibea quatem eosam int pos ium ne cuptaepudis es eles consecus. Litis ea nulpa cus sam, conecea vid mi, quat renim fugia sequae conseque porem aut es sint volut vendam esequid quos poreribus