Mercy Mwai @wangumarci Members of the National Assembly want investigations instituted on the construction of the 700-kilometre security wall on the Mandera-Somalia border after it emerged that most of the Sh3.9 billion budgeted for the project has already been spent. The lawmakers were, however, shocked to learn that Sh3.38 billion of it was gobbled by a paltry 10 kilometres of wire mesh fencing, even as the concrete was earmarked for the project. They now want the Director of Criminal Investigations (DCI), the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP), the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) and the Auditor General to investigate and determine whether there is value for money on  the project. They also want the government to stop the construction on grounds that a wall will not address terror attacks in the country. Insecurity scapegoat Fronted by Leader of Majority Aden Duale and his minority counterpart John Mbadi, MPs Mohammed Osman (Fafi), James Lomenen (Turkana South), James K’Oyoo (Muhoroni), Sophia Abdi (Ijara), David Sankori (Nominated) and Dahir Duale (Dadaab) claimed the project has been used by a few individuals to swindle Kenyans of their money as it cannot be audited due to the ongoing insecurity in the region. Their sentiments came during debate of the Defence committee report chaired by Katoo ole Metito which revealed that the amounts expended on the securisation project while under the Interior ministry totaled to Sh3.3 billion. The committee in the report also revealed that the execution of the project is slow even as it admitted that the already constructed perimeter wall is not of concrete but a wire mesh fence. The report further said the National Youth Service (NYS) that was in charge of the project had abandoned the site and left behind its equipment. “By the time the Ministry of Interior handed over the project to the Ministry of Defense, 10 kilometres of wall had already been done,” read the report. Duale said MPs will not allow insecurity and threats of al Shabaab to be used as pawns to steal and plunder money appropriated by Parliament. While asking his colleagues to reject the report, Duale also sought to know whether it was Kenya Defence Forces that funded the tour of the committee to Wajir to inspect the project or funding came from the Parliamentary Service Commission (PSC). “Who initiated this investigation? Was there a question by a private member? Was it a petition? Who took you to Mandera? If it is KDF who took this committee using their aircraft, then there is conflict of interests. From information I have, the committee went there courtesy of the Ministry of Defence,” he said. No value “This committee should bring recommendations to say there is no value for money on this project. EACC, DPP, DCI must move with speed and bring to book those who have eaten the Sh3.3 billion as it is only a wire mesh that has been built,” he added. Mbadi said the country should instead be investing heavily in the National Intelligence Service, adding that it has helped contain terror attacks. “What I think is that this is a white elephant again such as NYS. We are here to protect Kenyans and we will not allow this to continue. We need to fight corruption from top going down,” Osman said opposing the report. Lomenen claimed that a few individuals have taken advantage of projects initiated on borders because they are far from scrutiny.