George Kebaso @Morarak The 3rd One Planet Summit held at the UN headquarters in Gigiri, Nairobi, and its outcomes are meant to benefit some leaders and is not keen on addressing real challenges facing the African continent, local and international civil society groups have claimed. A few hours after the summit ended, civil society organisations (CSO) members said the proceedings of the forum were a replica of similar past initiatives, whose resolutions have never been implemented. The meeting that was co-chaired by President Uhuru and his French counterpart Emannuel Macron was attended by Madagascar President Andry Rajoelina, his Democratic Republic of Congo counterpart Felix Tshisekedi and Maithripala Sirisen of Sri Lanka, among others. “We have witnessed similar initiatives that have never been implemented, or whose outcomes were shrouded in secrecy,” Pan African Climate Justice Alliance (PACJA) executive director Mithika Mwenda said on behalf of the groups. He said the One Planet Summit was started by Macron in 2017 as an initiative of hope for Africans and other economically marginalised states, but claimed it has been transformed into a platform for actualisation of selfish interests. The Civil Society had raised several concerns in a workshop on Tuesday, including clean and renewable energy as an enabler of income generation, Africa’s energy deficits, genuine cooperation, which they believe can transform the vast potential of Africa, energy poverty in Africa and transition to clean energy, which they hoped would be addressed during Thursday’s summit. However, they were prevented from participating in the summit. Mwendwa condemned the top-down model used in addressing climate change. “Non-state actors in the private sector, research community, civil society, international NGOs, faith-led groups, among other development partners, play a critical role in developing systems, and should have been involved,” he added. At the summit, Uhuru said there is need to work together towards reversing unsustainable agricultural practices.