Alfayo Onyango Whiskey is known as the ‘aged’ drink. Irish whiskey is spelled like this while Scottish whisky is spelled like this. Either way, the drink is always named after the grain it is produced from or from the area it originates from.  Whisky drinking is a leisure activity, but also a commercial business to earn revenue. The process of making it includes picking a grain, distilling it, barrelling it for some time until it is ready for consumption. The term Whiskey was derived from the word ‘Uisce Beatha’ that stands for Water of Life in Gaelic. The ‘E’ in the spelling was added by the Irish to distinguish their brand from other whiskeys, call that marketing 101. There are four major grains in the whisky world and these are: corn, barley, rye, and wheat. Any whisky made from a different grain is just an exception, but the general combinations are from the aforementioned four main grains. Malt whisky has to have barley or otherwise that’s not malt, but whiskey too can be a mixture of grains. A mixture of grains gives you a blend that you can call ‘Grained whiskey’ or in some cases it could form ‘Blended Scotch’. Note that Scotch is all Scottish. Blended is used when the drink is a fusion of different distillations. Whisky flavour and colour is derived from the type of wood used to create it. The wood of barrels transmits different intricate flavors to distillery character that is already in the newly formed spirit. Wooden barrels are appreciated not just because they add nice flavours to whiskey, but they are also one of the largest expenses for beverage makers. Adding to the price and consequently desirability of the drink. Different species of oak differ in their levels of flavours, compounds, porous effects. Whisky purists will argue that it is so subjective everyone can have varying opinions about the drink and still be convinced of their verdict of the drink. Next time you have a glass, toast and say ‘Solanche’ which is used to wish the drinker great health. Solanche.