Seth Onyango, Roy Lumbe, Reuben Mwambingu and Mathew Ndung’u PeopleDailyKe As aviation experts launched a probe into the Ethiopian Airlines Boeing 737 crash, the chilling reality of the 157 people who perished as the plane plunged into a fireball is beginning to emerge as individuals whose fate has plunged family, friends and companions into grief take centre stage. Kenya suffered the biggest blow; losing 32 of the 157 aboard the flight from Addis Ababa to Nairobi, which had 149 passengers, and a crew of eight. In total, all were from 35 countries. Individual details expose them as among the country’s best in many respects—high achievers in academia, research, and corporate world, including the pilot. Children, fathers, mothers and friends with huge investments had their dreams explode six minutes after the brand new Boeing 738 MAX 8 plane took off. They never got the chance to be received and hugged on arrival at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA) that Sunday morning. God’s purpose for them, families, friends, country and universe captured in the lyrics of US singer Michael Jackson’s hit Gone Too Soon: ‘Born to amuse, to inspire, to delight…here one day, gone one night… and they are now the perfect flowers that are our beyond reach’, but whose memories with be fondly ensconced in our hearts and minds. There is no way fathoming the intensity of mourning but a village in Kabatini in Nakuru’s Bahati is perhaps exception. Here grief was palpable in the air as relatives and residents try to come to terms with the death of five members of one family. Karanja Quindos a retired teacher lost wife Anne Wangui, daughter Caroline Nduta, 34, and three grandchildren Ryan Njoroge, 7, Kellie Paul, 4, and Ruby Paul nine-months. Then there were two Kenyatta University lecturers Isaac Mwangi Minae and Agnes Kathumbi from the department of Educational Communication and Technology. Prof Gathumbi, 60, has served at the university for over 27 years while Dr Mwangi was 44. According to the KU Vice Chancellor Professor Paul Wainaina, the two were returning from an official duty in Italy when they met their death. “Our thoughts and prayers go out to their families, friends, entire KU fraternity and all those who have suffered loss at this very painful time,” said Wainaina. Also killed was Jonathan Seex, the chief executive of Tamarind Group, which operates a chain of   restaurants in Mombasa and Nairobi. Isabella Jaboma and Juliet Otieno were also aboard. Jaboma was returning to Nairobi from Canada   while Otieno is a management consultant at an advisory and training firm based in Nairobi. Amos Mbicha recalled the heartening jokes and vibes on family he exchanged with her younger sister Stella Konarskar who was nostalgic about her return via WhatsApp chats last Thursday when the latter informed him of her plans to fly home from Saudi Arabia on Sunday. That 9.30am exchange would be the last between brother and sister. Florence Wangari a nun, was travelling home from Congo where she worked as a missionary to get her e-passport. The medical fraternity is also mourning the death of Dr Grace Murugi, a medic who has practiced since 2013. Ngerenyi village in Mwatate, Taita-Taveta county was also plunged into mourning following the death of a couple Jared Babu Mwazo and his wife Mercy Ndivo Ngumi, from Ngerenyi village and who according to the manifest were seated next to each other. Mwazo had attended his wife’s graduation celebration in United Kingdom where she had graduated with master’s degree in Accounting. The two flew from UK to Ethiopia on different planes before they connected and boarded the ill-fated plane. Dickson Babu, a nephew to the deceased, said parents and relatives were at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport to welcome the couple. “His parents were waiting at the airport with the couple’s one-and-a-half year old daughter,” said Babu. Elsewhere, Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital (MTRH) fraternity is mourning the death of Jane Kamau who was a social worker at the facility. Joseph Waithaka a Kenyan-British dual national as well as Cedric Asiavugwa, a third-year Georgetown Law student who was traveling home to Nairobi also perished. As an organisation, the United Nations suffered the biggest casualty, losing 22 staff members with the route described as having high concentration of UN staff that shuttle between Addis Ababa and Nairobi with the World Food Program losing seven employees. “As we confront this terrible loss, we reflect that all these WFP colleagues were willing to travel and work far from their homes and loved ones to help make the world a better place to live in. That was their calling, as it is for the rest of the WFP family,” the organisation said in a statement. Among those killed are Ekta Adhikari (28) from Nepal, whose duty station was Addis Ababa, Maria Pilar Buzzetti (30) from Italy, duty station Rome, Virginia Chimenti (26) from Italy, duty station Rome and Harina Hafitz (59) from Indonesia, duty station Rome. Others are Zhen-Zhen Huang (46) from China, duty station Rome, Michael Ryan (39) from Ireland, duty station Rome and Djordje Vdovic (53) from Serbia, duty station Bangkok, on assignment to Rome.