PD Reporter @PeopledailyKe They rob and kill the very people they have sworn to serve and protect, using the weapons and equipment acquired using the victims’ taxes. This is the profile of some police officers who have turned rogue and are a new headache to a service that has to face the bitter irony that some of the most hardcore criminals are within its ranks. Senior police officers are going back to the drawing board to come up with new strategies to fight its own members who are cops by day and criminals by night. Between December last year and March this year, more than 100 officers have either been arrested or prosecuted for offences ranging from murder, robberies, gambling, kidnapping, extortion, gun-running to drug trafficking. So serious is the situation that the National Security Advisory Committee, which is chaired by the Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua, has raised the alarm over the rising cases of police officers donning the blue uniform and badge — the ubiquitous symbol of law and order — in one minute only to turn into dangerous criminals the next minute. Rogue officers are also known to hire out their official firearms and uniforms to criminals, who in turn use them to “arrest” and rob unsuspecting people. The head of Flying Squad Musa Yego has, however, downplayed the threat posed by rogue officers, saying they were prepared to deal with such characters. “There will always be such officers but we will deal with them firmly,” Yego told People Daily yesterday. Biggest arrest The largest number of officers arrested in a single operation was in late December last year, when about nine officers, including a Chief Inspector attached the to Directorate of Criminal Investigations, Nairobi Area, were arrested in connection to a robbery incident. They were identified as Corporal Enock Rop Kipkemoi, Corporal Alphonse Ochieng Onyango, Constable Oscar Ojiro Opondo and Constable Paul Mwangi Gwandaru. Others were Corporal Vincent Maronga, Corporal Lotome, Constables Erick Obiero and Elijah Seme. They were  charged with robbing a man of Sh291,000. The matter is pending in court. Reports show that some of the rogue officers who are on interdiction and have cases pending in court are still engaging in crime. Kidnap for ransom In one case, a Constable attached to Nairobi Central Police station who was out on bail over an active robbery case, was arrested in a botched kidnap for ransom attempt. During the same period, another Administration Police (AP) officer was accused of robbing petrol station guards of Sh729,000 and killing one of them. He was, however,  dramatically rescued by his colleagues from the Mandera Police Station but was re-arrested and charged in court. The situation is exacerbated by the fact that the rogue officers understand the security operations, enabling them to stay off the radar and commit crimes undetected. It is for this reason that police warn the cases reported could be a the tip of the iceberg. Yesterday, the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) boss George Kinoti, while defending police officers, assured Kenyans that detectives under his command were vigilant enough to protect them from such criminals. “Since I took office, there have been several cases where officers have turned out to be the very criminals terrorising the people that they are supposed to protect. Unlike in the previous years when some senior officers hid such incidents in a bid to protect the crooks, we have been exposing and prosecuting them,” said Kinoti. National Police Service spokesman Charles Owino attributes the rising cases of police officers getting involved in crime to disparities in allowances and poor management of stations and supervision of officers’ movements and their arms. “Some officers feel neglected compared to their colleagues who enjoy better allowances. Such disadvantaged officers are likely to turn to crime,” he says. Ironically, among rogue officers arrested recently is a senior officer attached to a unit tasked with conducting investigations into police misconduct. According to the investigators from the Flying Squad, Chief Inspector Kennedy Omondi Opiyo was attached to the Internal Affairs Unit (IAU). He was arrested with three others while allegedly attempting to extort Sh2 million. Sh10m bribe Opiyo was arrested together with Stanilus Otieno, Eddie Obwaka and Boniface Omengi after they confiscated passports of the complainants and demanding a Sh10 million bribe. Detectives recovered a pistol and rounds of ammunition during the arrest. The officer, according to reports, had been on the radar following reports that he was involved in criminal activities. Another suspect on the radar is a former National Intelligence Service (NIS) officer who was arrested last month for allegely trying to free Iranian terror suspects. Wesley Kiptanui Kipkemoi was dismissed from the service in 2012 and had been investigated for several criminal cases even before he left the service. Impersonation Last June, he was arrested in Mombasa for allegedly impersonating an officer from the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission. He is also alleged to have conned a foreigner of Sh600,000 by pretending that he was in a position to help him get a civilian firearm certificate. Concerted efforts have led to arrests of a couple of officers in the last two months. On Monday, Constable Shadrack Lagat was charged before a Maralal court for the offence of breaking into a building and committing a felony. The officer had earlier been captured on CCTV camera and was later positively identified during an identification parade. Around the same time, detectives from the Special Crimes Prevention Unit (SCPU) also arrested Corporal Alloys Onyango and Constable Arbanus Mutunga after they were captured on CCTV stealing more than 25kg of heroine. The two allegedly used Peter Okoth Odongo, a drug trafficker, to lure two other traffickers identified as Alfric Odhiambo Otieno and Kenneth Sinzore to an ambush. They arrested them, confiscated the drugs and dumped the traffickers. A fortnight ago, Sergeant Richard Moru, a Constable and a retired intelligence officer were arrested for the murder of Advocate Robert Chesang after they were allegedly paid by the deceased’s wife Magistrate Pauline Chesang. Detectives also confiscated Sergeant Moru’s car and two police AK-47 rifles linked to the scene of crime through ballistics analysis. Though information about rogue spies are very scanty, reports indicate that some have also been reported to be working outside of the usually accepted rules. IAU challenges The battle lines have been drawn against rogues in police uniform, with the police bosses maintaining that they would be relentless and resolute. “It is a rather tough decision but we have to deal with the real enemy within the ranks,” said a senior officer who sought anonymity. As more officers get involved in criminal activities, focus is now on the IAU, one of the units tasked with dealing with rogue officers and police misconduct. The unit is established under Section 87 of the National Police Service Act and its main functions include to investigate complaints against the police, promote standards of discipline, investigate and recommend appropriate action against officers found to have engaged in unlawful conduct. The unit can also investigate cases as directed by the Inspector General of Police or the Independent Policing Oversight Authority (Ipoa). Some senior officers told People Daily that there are challenges in investigating and handling such cases. The IAU had in the past complained to the office of the IG about non-cooperation. A case in point was when the then IAU director Leo Nyongesa wrote to OCS Pangani through the Starehe OCPD Alice Kimeli directing him to release the Occurrence Book and cell register. Non-cooperation According to Nyongesa, the OCS refused claiming that they had been directed by the then Nairobi County commander Japheth Koome not to comply. “It has been established that most divisional and station commanders are frustrating the efforts by the IAU to conduct meaningful investigations within Nairobi City citing an order from the County police commander Japheth Koome that they should not cooperate in any way with the Unit investigators,” Nyongesa wrote. He added: “It is hereby recommended that your good office issue an order to the two DIGs and DCI to warn field commanders who are out to sabotage the work of the Unit and your office to desist from doing so.”