Bernard Gitau @benagitau The Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (Cites) has approved 75 per cent of Kenya Wildlife Service (KWS) proposals to have four animals listed as endangered species. In January, KWS submitted four proposals to have giraffes, pancake tortoise, wedge fish and sea cucumbers listed as seriously at risk of extinction. In their provisional results notification to the parties, Cites secretariat approved pancake tortoise, wedge fish and sea cucumbers to be listed as endangered or under special protection but objected listing giraffes. Kenya and European Union (EU) noted sea cucumbers are not included in the Cites Appendices and were facing exploitation through illegal fishing and loss of habitat. Cites secretariat acknowledged that according to the supporting statement, sea cucumbers have low productivity. “This means, according to the guidance, a decline of the population to 30 per cent of the baseline would mean a species meets the criteria to be included in Appendix II,” Cites said. Cites Appendix II covers species whose trade must be controlled to avoid utilisation incompatible with their survival. Sea cucumbers are harvested from the shoreline by hand in legal and illegal fisheries.  The ease of capture and their high value in international trade and biological characteristics are reported as risk factors in the supporting statement. On the pancake tortoise proposal submitted by Kenya and the US, Cites provisional conclusions said they meet criteria of being moved from appendix II to Appendix I (list of species that are the most endangered).  The proposal seeks to prohibit international commercial trade in specimens of wild origin of pancake tortoise that are at risk of extinction partly because of its rigid habitat requirements. Cites secretariat objected giraffe inclusion in Appendix II in their provisional conclusions. They said based on the information available at the time of writing, the global population of giraffe does not seem to be small.