Morris Aron There is a certain trend that is gaining currency in our news outlets. Lately, a day barely passes by before someone appeals for help. If it is not about joblessness then it is an appeal towards a medical fund, school fees or issues along those lines. It gets worse, almost daily there is a suicide, a brutal murder, a violent crime or some unfortunate incident that is reported that bears all the hallmarks of psychosocial violence. Psychosocial issues are a bit complicated but people who are familiar with the subject say that such cases are closely related to loss of means to livelihood or hopelessness in the midst of adversity. Those who specialise in such issues, however, maintain that psychosocial-induced violence is a strong key pointer to economic distress situations. Others say that such incidences could be as a result of increase in mental health-related concerns that have been boiling under for some time and are now coming home to roost. Such numbers would not be anything to worry about had the frequency of incidences been so consistent while appearing to be increasing. Left, right and center, the streets, social and mainstream media is awash with young men and women walking with placards appealing for job opportunities or a means to a livelihood. In the most recent report, the number of suicides reported in Kenya rose by 58 per cent between 2008 and 2017 while the country ranked 114 out of 175 countries with high suicide rates. But even in the midst of the haze as to the causes, the economic angle to the psychosocial issues are quite evident. Statistics seem to agree. If the cases of rising loan default rates or the level of repossessions are anything to go by, it is almost clear that the high cost of living is beginning to affect the social fabric of the society. The level of non-performing loans and rising defaults is worrying many financial institutions. Last year, firms listed at the Nairobi Securities Exchange laid off more than 4,000 workers. Banks and other financial institutions sent home close to 2,000 employees. More than half of small and medium enterprises (SMEs) went under last year while credit to households fell to a near freeze at a 2.4 per cent growth. More than five major businesses have since closed shop over the last one year and the list continues.  From a layman’s perspective, less money in circulation and crumbling SMEs, the effect on the social fabric for those on the lower income groups appears to be all too apparent. The high levels of in-debtness as brought about by the number of lay-offs, auctions and businesses that are going under is now a common feature in our newspapers. Since most people owe identity to their income, financial strain means loss of lifestyle, friends and their sense of purpose; it is just possible that increasing suicide rates has something to do with the current economic conditions. It is unimaginable the kind of stress that those who have lost their source of income are undergoing. Worse still, if such individuals were the only source of income to a family or a group of families. For the younger population, there is an argument that the rates of psychosocial violence is due to pressure resulting from what they see their peers doing but with an economic factor underlying.  It is important that the root causes of the current wave of psychosocial chaos is understood and addressed. – The writer is an economic researcher. Email: aronmaurice3@gmail.com