IRENE GITHINJI and PSCU President Uhuru Kenyatta has once again come out guns blazing saying it will not be business as usual in the war against corruption. The President said no one will be spared in the war against corruption, including his relatives who might have been caught up engaging in the vice. A tough-talking Uhuru made the firm remark when he met Kenyans living in Namibia on Thursday evening, where he was on a State visit. “If you seek a position of authority, it must be on the basis of what you are going to be able to do to serve your fellow man not to serve yourself and that is why wapende wasipende, rafiki au adui, ndugu au dada (whether they like it or not…friends or foes, brother or sister) if you want to be involved in corruption, we will fight you.. Adding: ”You can be my brother, you can be my sister but you are an enemy of the Republic of Kenya and we will fight with you.” What followed just hours after speculation was a communication by his Chief of Staff, Nzioka Waita indicating that all the President’s social media accounts had been temporarily suspended. However, this raised eyebrows more since it came just moments after a message posted indicating that no one will be spared, even the ‘closest political ally’ It was not immediately clear what the President was driving to since the video clips sent to news rooms had the part ‘closest political ally’ edited out. President Uhuru is one of the most followed leader in Africa with more than three  million followers on Twitter and for the better part of the day, he was trending. “If you are corrupt, we will fight you. You can be my brother or sister or my closest political ally but if you are corrupt we will fight you. I won’t be clouded by ethnicity or status in my quest to leave behind a united nation and I will continue championing for Kenya’s unity.” read the tweet. Nzioka’s message read: “On account of unauthorised access to the official social media handles of H.E the President of the Republic of Kenya, Uhuru Kenyatta. All official social media handles for the President have been temporarily suspended to allow for the necessary remedial measures to be undertaken.” “I don’t know whether you understand what I am saying.Yes? We must draw the line. If someone says they are seeking a job, it should be about serving Kenyans not yourself, wife and children,” the President went on. An attempt to open President Uhuru’s Twitter handle displayed a message: “Sorry, that page doesn’t exist!” This is not the first time that the President has issued a firm warning against the corrupt. During the anti-corruption conference held about a month ago, the President sounded a warning to State and public officers to either choose between their jobs or own businesses. The President has also been firm that corruption is a vice which Kenyans must unite to fight to have the country progress. His remarks in Namibia came just after a day Deputy President William Ruto said it is corruption in itself if the war on corruption is hijacked by political class and lacks integrity. He said the war on corruption has been selective. “There has been an attempt to hijack war on corruption and turn it into war against specific individuals… A war on corruption that lacks integrity becomes corruption itself. A war that lacks integrity is impunity,” Ruto said, while in Mombasa.