Mercy Mwai @wangumarci Former Deputy Prime Minister Musalia Mudavadi’s Amani National Congress has expelled Nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi from the party. The move comes weeks after the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) expelled Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa for campaigning for Deputy President William Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid. ANC has also sent a stern warning to Nominated Senator Petronilla Were, whom it has summoned to appear before it tomorrow to explain why she should not be expelled. In a statement signed by secretary general Barrack Muluka, the party said it made the decision after the National Executive Committee (NEC) agreed with the resolutions of the disciplinary committee that recommended his expulsion over claims of misuse of the funds. Muluka said the decision to expel Osotsi was tabled before NEC on March 18, during which session, the disciplinary committee’s decision was upheld and ratified. Following the move, the party announced that it has written to the Registrar of Political Parties, Ann Nderitu, and Clerk of the National Assembly, Michael Sialai, informing them of the party’s decision. Audit findings In the letter, Muluka told the two that Osotsi, who stands expelled, ceases to enjoy the privileges he gets as a member of the party or in any way to act on behalf of the political outfit. “Pursuant to the said Article 50, and having exhaustively deliberated over the matter before it, the disciplinary committee has decided that Godfrey Osotsi is hereby expelled forthwith from the membership of the ANC party,” read the statement in part. NEC’s decision came after the disciplinary committee held a meeting  at the party headquarters on March 6 and resolved that he be expelled. And although Osotsi’s removal is pegged on a purported adverse audit findings by Auditor General Edward Ouko, it was understood that the letter sent to the party was a management audit letter to explain the usage of funds allocated from the party’s kitty. Immediately after the letter was delivered, Osotsi dismissed the action by his party terming the decision as irrational, dictatorial, intimidating and meant to injure his budding political career. In a statement, Osotsi, however, said he will only respond to the “purported expulsion” once he has been properly served by the party. Legal battle “According to my understanding, there was no ANC NEC meeting and if it were, I would have been invited to state my case. If they are basing their so-called verdict on the purported recommendations of the disciplinary committee, it is dead on arrival,” he said. “Just because ODM has done it, they think they will do it and get away with it not knowing that the scenarios are different,” he added. The removal of Osotsi comes at a time when he is engaged in a legal battle with the party over his removal as the secretary general. The matter is currently before the High Court where he is challenging Muluka’s appointment. 