Mercy Mwai @wangumarci Some MPs yesterday engaged in intense lobbying to save embattled Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) chair Wafula Chebukati and remaining commissioners from a disgraceful exit. Sources said a Public Accounts Committee (PAC) report recommends that Chebukati and commissioners Boya Molu and Abdi Guliye be removed from office. The report indicts them over the handling of the 2017 General Election and abuse of office.  It also says, their exit would pave way for reforms in the electoral agency. Interestingly, the lobbying was being spearheaded by a group of MPs from across the political divide, who were reaching out to others to support their bid. MPs, who did not want to be named, confirmed that powerful individuals had tried to contact a few members to have the report rejected while others wanted the report amended to save Chebukati and his team. It was understood MPs were split in three categories: those pushing for rejection of the report in its entirety; those who want it passed as it is and those who want Chebukati’s, Molu’s and Guliye’s names removed from the report. According to the sources, those pushing for the removal of the commissioners’ names argue that they are not to blame for the mess  as they took office only six months to the General Election. Isiolo Woman Rep MP Rehema Jaldesa said she would oppose the report on grounds that it lacks clarity on who should take responsibility for the electoral problems. “I don’t agree with it because the report wants commissioners to take personal responsibility yet they took over only six months to the poll,” she said. Those said to be leading the lobbying include a male legislator from Western region and a female colleague. One MP who did not want to be mentioned said: “I can confirm that some MPs have been approached. Some people are keen to have this report rejected. We are, however, not going to allow this.” But PAC chairperson Opiyo Wandayi appealed to his colleagues to be driven by national interests. “As a committee we have done our part. We have discharged our mandate. The ball now is in the court of the whole House. But we pray the House rises to the occasion and adopts this report,” he said. Last week, PAC recommended that the commissioners vacate office on grounds that “their continued existence as currently constituted, even for one extra day”, was untenable.