Hillary Mageka and Githinji Mwangi @PeopleDailyKe In an escalation of the war of words, Deputy President William Ruto told off ODM leader Raila Odinga, describing the latter as “the ugly face of impunity.” In a bare-knuckle attack, Ruto accused Raila of peddling propaganda, hearsay and misinformation with the aim of discrediting him. And he angrily told off critics questioning his interest in the Arror and Kimwarer dams scandal and likened Raila to a hyena questioning the interests of a herder in his own flock. “Rumour mongers and selective prosecution targeting predetermined individuals will not help in the war against corruption but would  only weaken efforts to end the vice that is destroying our country,” Ruto said. Regional governments The DP also rejected Raila’s proposal for the creation of regional governments, saying the future of devolution will not be determined by size or population. Addressing delegates at the closure of the Sixth Annual Devolution Conference at Kirinyaga University grounds, Ruto reiterated that devolution would only be successful if the country embraces creative, innovative and visionary leadership. “The debate about size, groupings and mergers is treacherous, an anti-devolution narrative that is simplistic, retrogressive and seeks to reverse the hard-earned gains of our reform endeavour,” Ruto said and termed it an attempt to sneak selfish and self-preservationist agenda into a national conversation with the aim of derailing the country from development trajectory. While addressing the same delegates on Wednesday, Raila had pushed to have a three-tier government formalised in law, insisting the current 47 counties were too tiny to compete and marshal internal resources for their major infrastructural projects. Raila, who had rallied the governors to support his view cautioned that any attempt to stifle the debate for fear of change or merely political expediency would be swept by winds of change. But countering the former premier, Ruto described Raila’s call for creation of another layer of government and bureaucracy as reckless, pedestrian and outright thoughtless as 52 per cent of revenue goes to salaries and wages. National discourse According to him, the only realistic discussion is how to operationalise Ward Development Fund as a way of entrenching devolution to the villages. On the Sh20.5 billion phantom dams scandal, Ruto told Raila to leave him alone as he was a herdsman accounting for his flock and describing himself as prolific and diligent herdsman who must know which cow is sick as he brings his cattle home. On keeping with old principle of the herdsman, Ruto said he has to have an interest in the construction of the dams as the Deputy President of Kenya. “Odinga I have an interest, a major one for that matter,” the DP shot back, adding;   “With Uhuru Kenyatta, we put 67 dams to be constructed over the next five years in the Jubilee manifesto. Those asking me why I am engaged in this should know it is because of Jubilee manifesto.” As a responsible Deputy President, he said he has been well versed with the happenings in government. However, Ruto at the same time clarified that he had no problem with the Opposition chief claiming the exchange was just but a national discourse that is supposed to help Kenyans make informed choices. Raila on Tuesday, told Ruto to tell Kenyans what he knows about the Sh21 billion scandal that has already sucked in National Treasury Cabinet secretary Henry Rotich.