James Mwenja, a Mombasa-based taxi driver, saunters towards the parking area at Makadara grounds in the city’s central business district, where he boards his car and ignites the engine to life. As he maneuvers the vehicle along the busy streets, his impeccable manual dexterity behind the steering wheel, makes it difficult for anyone to imagine he was once a dialysis patient. “Both of my kidneys failed in 2009 and I was put on dialysis for five years. It was such a tough moment for me,” says the 35-year-old father of two girls. Mwenja recalls it all started in 2008 with a severe two-day headache. When he went for a medical checkup, he was diagnosed with high blood pressure (BP). Youthful habits After the diagnosis, he admits he down played the doctor’s instructions and continued with youthful habits of night clubbing characterised by consuming alcoholic drinks. “The BP would rise and stabilise occasionally but I never took it seriously as I would buy drugs over the counter to suppress the condition,” he says. By September 2009, his condition deteriorated and he would experience constant fatigue and swelling of legs. The Changamwe resident was diagnosed with kidney failure after thorough screening at a private clinic in Mombasa and was advised to start dialysis. “I did not trust the results and I travelled to Nairobi the following month for an elaborate test at Kenyatta National Hospital (KNH). They too said I should start dialysis immediately,” he says, adding that depression set in as he came to terms with the reality. Sick and depressed, Mwenja says he was constantly moody, which contributed to termination of his first marriage and led to further stress. In 2011, he returned to Mombasa where he continued with dialysis. “At that time, there was nothing like National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF) cover for dialysis patients, so I would spend up to Sh16,000 weekly on dialysis. I largely relied on contributions from family and friends after spending all I had. I was physically, emotionally and financially drained, especially after breaking up with my wife,” he says. Stabilise condition This would go on for five years within which he claims to have spent about Sh5 million on drugs and supplements to stabilise his condition following dialysis. In 2014, his younger brother Joseph Gichangi donated his kidney to him and a transplant was successfully done at KNH where NHIF catered for Sh200,000. Although he feels “rejuvenated” after the transplant, Mwenja says life as a kidney transplant survivor is expensive, delicate and challenging. “Ordinarily, most people would imagine that after transplant that a kidney patient is healed completely and free from medical burden, but what many do not know is that this kind of life is normally very delicate,” he says. He says after transplant, many patients remain on drugs for the rest of their lives. Mwenja is on Cyclosporine, an immunosuppressant class of drugs used to prevent organ rejection after transplant. He takes the drug alongside Myfortic that allows the new organ to function normally. “A month’s dosage of original drugs costs Sh40,000 monthly but because I need to cut costs I use generic drugs which cost me Sh30,000,” he says, adding that he would spend Sh60,000 monthly after the transplant and Sh50,000 in the second year following change of drugs. Mwenja says it is imperative for the government to incorporate medication of kidney transplant patients in NHIF, adding that many such patients have succumbed to the condition for failing to afford medication costs. Mwenja, who has since remarried, urged the public not to shy away from donating kidneys based on the unfounded belief that it could result in infertility. He also proposes that the government considers kidney patients as part of persons living with disability, saying most are weak and cannot handle tough duties by themselves.