Ciala, I’m told, is a type of tree. But it’s also a resort in Kisumu County overlooking the Maragoli hills. The proprietor settled on the name because while constructing they found many trees of this type on site and decided to pay homage to them. Last weekend, I headed to Kisumu on a road trip. I’m advised to leave my wig behind because of the humid weather. Kisumu is hot I know, but weave me alone!  I can handle the heat just to maintain a mini vacay fashionable look. Soon enough we get to Kisumu, then drive to Ciala, which is a 25-minute drive from the city. We get there quite late, although blame lies squarely on my shoulders. Blame it on being a party person and the curiosity of the nightlife in Kisumu.  Ciala Resort is a haven in the outskirts. Once you step into the resort it’s like you’ve stepped into a mystery, a hidden treasure reminiscent of the Transylvania movie. I love how well lit this place is, you easily get lulled by the great view of the grounds at night. We walk in to find a bubbly receptionist, ready to help us settle in. Then there is that welcome drink, which I end up not drinking because of the excitement. My room for the weekend was number 207, which you have to access via a touch button outside the room. Each button has been set according to the guests’ desires. There is the clean my room button, the bell to request for whatever service you need and, my personal favourite, the do not disturb button. You see there is nothing as annoying someone knocking at your door shouting, “room service!” while you are trying to catch a few winks. At Ciala things are digital, which reminds me of how the customer service offered here is exemplary. Apart from the modern rooms, one thing that stood out is their attention to detail. It’s rare to find little conveniences such as a shoe brush, and toothbrushes with toothpaste in hotels nowadays. Additionally, everything in the room is synchronised. Once you place your key card on the main socket everything automatically goes on, including the TV. I had two favourite places in the resort; the dining area, and the Tulip bar. I spent most of my time in these two areas. The dining area because I’m a foodie and the Tulip Bar because it’s posh and I love my cocktails.  I had lasagna twice in a row, and I can’t seem to stop craving it ever since. But the food menu is a story for another day. The feeling of being in a club and enjoying yourself without necessarily getting too wasted or sweating your sweet self on the dance flow is a bit unusual.  At Tulip Bar, I would I sit on the bar stool closest to the mixologist.  Just to get a view of the whole bar plus also, to get the order as fast as my thirst demanded. Cosy, classy, and executive is the best way to describe the Tulip bar. It’s the perfect getaway if you want to think straight, write a book, mend a relationship and indulge in other individual activities. It’s therapeutic just to be there, you can even forget you own a phone. In case you feel like a little physical activity you have a pool to cool off and a few board games to keep you company. I reluctantly left the serenity of Ciala for the trip back home, as I left the premises, I wondered when I would be able to come back. Soon I hope!