During my stay at The Charming Lonno Lodge Watamu, I had an opportunity to get in the kitchen with chefs Anthony Kenga and Mary Kanze, who showed me how to prepare risotto in cheese basket. Risotto, which I hadn’t known much about until this point, is an Italian rice dish usually made with a short grain starchy variety of rice called arborio. Whilst boiling is the common way of making rice, toasting and creaming are the key methods when making risotto. It’s prepared by stirring small amounts of hot stock into the rice a little at a time as you permit the liquid to be absorbed. Chef Anthony tells me that as the rice cooks, it releases its starch, which is significant in ensuring that the risotto is rich, creamy and consistent. The more starch there is in the rice, the creamier the risotto will be. I was also told that like pasta, risotto is cooked al dente. This means that it should be slightly firm to the bite with a degree of doneness, which if compared to normal rice, might seem underdone. Risotto can go with roasted shrimp, sausage, chicken thighs or even beans. Before we were done with the risotto, we made a cheese basket, which is a bowl or dish made from cheese that you can fill with risotto, stew or even pasta. It makes an outstanding presentation especially when you have guests or a romantic occasion. For the cheese basket Ingredients Cheese 65g (Any firm grating cheese) Method Place the pan on the heat and add the grated cheese. It will begin to melt, then bubble and change colour on the edges, but ensure it doesn’t turn brown. Use a spoon to detach the edges from sticking to the pan. At this point, the cheese is a sheet, and to drape it, tip the pan over a small bowl so the cheese, brown side up, takes the shape. You can also use a cup or any shape you want. Let it set for less than a minute and lift it off the bowl. Your basket is now ready for the filling. For the stock Ingredients Carrots 4 Onion 1 Egg plant Salt to taste Method Cut the vegetables into large pieces and simmer in some water for some minutes. Add salt to taste. For the risotto Ingredients (serves 4-5) Vegetable stock Onion 1 Garlic 2 cloves Olive oil 3 Tbsp Arborio rice 400g Unsalted butter Parmesan cheese 90g Chives Black pepper and salt to taste Method Heat one tablespoon of olive oil in a pan, add onion and garlic, then stir. Cook for one minute then add rice and stir for about two minutes to coat with oil. Add 1/2 cup hot stock to the rice, and stir until the broth is absorbed. Continue adding stock 1/2 cup at a time, stirring continuously, until the liquid is absorbed and the rice is firm (al dente). This will take about 15 to 20 minutes. Remove from heat, and stir in butter, chives, and Parmesan. Season with salt and pepper to taste and serve in cheese basket.