Mutwiri Muriithi @mutwirimuriithi Warnings from Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) and Capital Markets Authority (CMA) on crypto-currencies has come to pass with Kenyans losing millions of shillings to an online currency scam. Brazilian crypto-currency firm Velox 10 Global conned Kenya traders millions of shillings after the pyramid scheme purporting to be a global crypto-currency trader went burst. Several Kenyans who had invested hundreds of millions of shillings through the firm are said to have lost cash after the firm which guaranteed them millions of shillings in profits if they invested their cash through the firm refused to pay them profits. For starters, the firm charged about Sh10,000 as membership fee. However, in classic pyramid scheme approach, the members were asked to upgrade by paying an additional Sh20,000 with the promise of earning incredible returns totaling up to Sh400,000 daily. CBK Governor Dr Patrick Njoroge has consistently cautioned that bitcoin could be a Ponzi scheme based on its volatile movement and further issued a circular warning against trading in the currency. Those interested in cypto-businesses should beware that should anything happen, they will be on their own since the funds are not regulated by the Central Bank of Kenya, and so they cannot be traced. What this means is that those who have been conned will have an uphill task to trace the cash if at all they can.Analysts warn those willing to still invest to do a thorough background check of the bitcoin traders as a precaution to ascertain they are reputable and genuine. Binary reviews, a website that enables investors to assess and test the features of crypto-systems had put Velox 10 Global on the spot three years ago due to its scanty and contradicting information concerning the whereabouts of about the parent firm, unrealistic return on investment, suspicious withdrawal conditions, inaccurate history of Velox 10 profits and results. It also warned that Ricardo Rocha, the company Chief Executive Officer had no reputation in dealing in crypto-currencies like other companies in that sector. The tell-tale signs of such schemes include deals that sound too good to be true. Make sure basic pieces of information are unavailable, including the name of owners.