Martin Mwita @MwitaMartin Most family owned businesses in Kenya (59 per cent) would consider tapping private equity to help fund their ventures, a survey by PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) has revealed, in the wake of a credit crunch in the local market amid default risks attached to bank loans. This comes as internal resources topple bank loans as the most used source of funding for family-ran entities with a preference of 85 per cent. The survey, which covered 46 respondents, varying from manufacturing, retailers and trade, shows 83 per cent of businesses would go for bank loans, but are seen by banks as risky borrowers. “A lot of these businesses want to bring in partners who can help grow the businesses,” PwC Kenya partner and leader, private company services, Michael Mugasa said yesterday during the survey release in Nairobi. Comparisons with listed or family-run companies show that businesses financed by private equity exhibit stronger growth, pursue a more targeted strategy and have a better financing structure. Balance sheet One of the advantages in using private equity is that it does not show up as a liability in the balance sheet, creating a stronger perception of the business while enhancing the chances of attracting investment. Along with the much-required funding, private equity firms often bring strategic expertise to grow or turnaround the business. This promotes value addition for the firms.  With experts steering the business, the potential for success is maximised, according to financial services firm Reliance Capital. In case of secured loans, there is a possibility of crucial assets of the business being pledged as collateral.  Moreover, the business owner’s personal properties may be attached in case of a default. “Private equity brings on board good governance and professionalism which go along with the family business values. By sitting on the boards of these businesses, private equity investors are able to share fresh ideas needed for growth while providing a network that can be used to expand the businesses,” East Africa Private Equity and Venture Capital Association executive director Eva Warigia told People Daily in an interview. Since the capping of interest rates in 2016,which put a ceiling on lending rate by banks and other financial institutions at four per cent above the Central Bank of Kenya, private sector credit has slowed growing by a paltry 3.2 per cent last year, the lowest over the last 10 years. Banks have continued to prefer government securities over lending to individuals whom they consider high risk borrowers. Other sources used by family businesses in the country include venture capital (24 per cent) and capital markets (four per cent). Four per cent of the family businesses are planning to start using the stock market to raise funds for expansion, the survey shows. Energy prices Meanwhile, corruption tops the list of challenges faced by these entities, a trend expected to be felt over the next two years affecting 72 per cent of the businesses. Access to skills, prices of energy, raw materials and international competition are cited by more than half of the businesses (52 per cent). Other challenges include the need to innovate, economic environment, regulation, domestic competition, cybersecurity, professionalisation of the business, succession, digitalisation, data management and access to financing. “In a fast-changing and challenging business environment, family businesses in Kenya need to be able to think beyond the immediate demands of the day-to-day business and develop an informed view of the future. Digital technology is disrupting business, sustainability is becoming key to the conduct of business, winning trust is more important than it has ever been and millennials present an enduring demographic change,” said Mugasa. The study has further revealed 59 per cent of the businesses feel vulnerable to cyber attack while 35 per cent of these entities feel vulnerable to digital disruption, both higher than the global averages of 40 per cent. Succession also remains a threat to long-term existence of family businesses, PwC has revealed. “Only 17 per cent of Kenyan family businesses have a robust, formalised and communicated succession plan in place (lower than in 2016),” the report states. Growthy in revenues Majority of the companies covered in the study have turnovers of between $11 million (Sh1.1 billion) and $1 billion (Sh100.8 billion). About 33 per cent of the respondents are companies with a turnover of $10 million (Sh1 billion) and below. Leading family businesses in the country include Bidco, KenAfric Industries, Tuskys, Chandarana Foodplus, Ramco Group of Companies and Comcraft Group. Generally, the survey shows that family businesses are in robust health, with revenues expected to continue growing for the vast majority (82 per cent), compared to 84 per cent globally, with 30 per cent of local respondents saying that growth will be ‘quick’ and ‘aggressive’ compared to 16 per cent globally. “Majority of private company chief executives said they were somewhat confident or very confident about their company’s growth prospects in the next 12 months,” said PwC regional and country senior partner, Eastern Africa Peter Ngahu.