Martin Mwita @MwitaMartin Multiple levies and taxes by counties are affecting the cost of doing business across Kenya, the national government warned yesterday. East African Community and Regional Development Cabinet secretary Adan Mohamed cautioned that the practice by the devolved units is likely to undermine the country’s quest to improve its business environment. The concern comes as the national government continues to implement a number of reforms as it targets to make it to the top 50 in the World Bank Ease of Doing Business Ranking. Kenya is currently ranked at position 61 out of 190 in the most recent report (2019), a position it secured after  climbing 76 places from  137 where it was about three years ago. Key challenge Adan said multiple cess and levies in different counties remain a key challenge for businesses, mainly movement from one region to the other. Though he acknowledged the constitutional rights of the counties to raise revenue, the CS said some are detrimental to business. “Moving from Kisumu to Mombasa you go through almost 10 counties. You might end up paying levies across all the counties,” Adan said, when the government hosted private sector players to a forum on “Doing Business Reforms”, an event held in Nairobi. The levies charged by counties affect food commodities, manufacturing, building and construction and trade not only within the country (inter-county), but also exports. “What we want to avoid is a situation where the country is cut into many counties and businesses feel they are operating in different countries let alone counties,” he observed. Counties that have hit the headlines include Kajiado which moved to impose a  cess fees on sand, where transporters were charged between Sh1,000 and Sh2,500. Last year, players in the tea sector decried multiple levies they pay totaling to about 38. They included a cess of Sh32 per packet of tea introduced  by the Mombasa county government, with the multiple levies being blamed for stifling tea business in the country. Maize farmers and traders have also have experience of paying cess of Sh70 per 90 kilogramme bag or Sh6,000 for a 28-tonne truck transporting maize.