Former Export Processing Zone (EPZ) chief executive Fanuel  Kideda has moved to court seeking to have Trade Cabinet secretary Peter Munya  held in contempt of court for disobeying court orders directing he be paid salary arrears after termination of his contract. Kideda claims Munya has failed to obey court orders issued by Justice Hellen Wasilwa of Employment and Labour Relations Court last December, directing  that he be paid his salary for September to December, 2018. “Munya has to be found guilty of contempt of this court order,” said Kideda in court documents. Kideda, through lawyer Dunstan Omari, claimed Munya has facilitated the disobedience of court orders and substantively interfered with the administration of justice and has offered no plausible reasons as to why he has not obeyed the orders. At the same time, the former chief executive has accused EPZ acting CEO and accounting officer George Makatelo of failing to facilitate his payment. Kideda claimed Munya backdated a gazette  notice in order to have his reappointment terminated so he could appoint a candidate of his choice. According to a letter attached to the court documents from the then Trade CS Adan Mohamed, Kideda’s term was to end on September 20, 2018 but he reappointed him extending his term for another three years, following recommendations from EPZ board of directors, through a letter dated July 6, 2018. Aden, in the latter, says he communicated the reappointment in good time for the purpose of ensuring continuity and certainty in operations of EPZ according to powers bestowed upon him by Section 6(1)of EPZ Act. “I was the CS in charge of cooperatives and the allegations that the appointment of Kideda could not take effect prior to Munya seeing the document is incorrect because at the time of issuing the letter of reappointment l was the relevant CS. It follows that the contract signed on July 31,2018 is valued and biding having been issued on the strength of my letter date July 11,2018,”he says. However, Munya in his replying affidavit said the court’s order to pay Kideda’s salary for the four months is unforeseeable as it goes against the principles of legality, effective and efficient management of public finances as provided in the Public Finance Management Act, 2012, since Kideda was not working for the period September 20, 2018 till December 31, 2018. In December last year, Justice  Wasilwa issued orders directing Munya to withhold the appointment of Makateto to replace Kideda.