What are some of the technologies in the gaming sector that excite you? The Nintendo Switch and the Xbox Kinect Are there specific devices /apps you use in your field often? Most gaming is currently done on phone as they the most readily available/accessible devices. As for Apps, Twitch is a good tool to keep in-touch with latest gameplays, walkthroughs and speed-runs of various games. One can also follow their favourite e-sport players. As a gamer what is that one thing that you must have? A PC. It’s versatile enough to play any game of my choice. That does not discount the need to have other accessories. What is the most expensive gadget do you have or you have ever owned? My PC. Since I double up as an animator, I need a good enough machine to handle intense rendering for my animations What is the future of gaming in Kenya? E-sports and game development. The E-Sports section has been getting a big jump in the last one year and we will see more and more players coming on board. The game development sector has also been on the rise in the last few years and it will soon grow into a whole tech destination for game developers. What’s been your most disappointing tech purchase? The ending man console that I think almost everyone had at some point. I played with it for only two weeks and then its adaptor blew. What are the pros and cons of using consoles/Traditional video game system? Pros 1. You get great dedicated game releases that you will enjoy playing over and over. 2. You do not need to keep expensive upgrades of parts to keep it running, unlike a PCs graphics card that may need to be replaced with newer games that have higher graphic demands. 3. They have great resolution at the fraction of the cost of a proper gaming rig. Cons 1. You are limited to play games on the console you have games as are not transferrable between consoles. 2. The console games are more expensive. 3. They are not backward compatible, for instance you cannot play a PS 4 game on a PS 3 console while on a computer based rig you can. Block chain has extended to many fields, will the gaming field be an exception? No it is not. I’m still researching on the matter thus I cannot give further details on it. What is the newest technology in this field and why do you think it works? The Nintendo Switch has been a novel idea that is a must have. One can continue playing their game irrespective of whether on the console or mobile. You can play while on the move without the need to carry a bulky system or screen to play.