Wales Rally Great Britain clerk of course Iain Campbell is in the country and will commence inspections of the two main rally blocks that Kenya Motorsport Federation (KMSF) and the World Rally Championship (WRC) steering committee have chosen for the WRC candidate event set for July 5. Campbell starts his tour in Naivasha, which has been fronted as the fovourite route and is expected to make recommendations to the technical committee on any changes required. Safety and ease “We will be looking at the terrain of the route for the required 350km of the competitive stages. Additionally, the safety and ease of rescue in the event of any incidences is also to be considered among other crucial elements of running a successful WRC event,” said Campbell. The proximity to hospitals and capacity of the area to accommodate all crews and spectators are some of the other factors that are to be considered while settling for a course for WRC events. After the five-day visit by Campbell and his team, legendary rally driver Michele Mouton, who is also the FIA Race Director, is expected in the country, tentatively in April, to conduct the final inspection of the routes and make the final decision on which block will be used. Before proceeding to the actual rally route, Kasarani Stadium is set to host a ceremonial start  which will double as the first competitive stage where rally enthusiasts will be entertained as man battles machine over a 2.5km Super Special Stage. Spectator stage On the second day of the rally, the Naivasha route starts at Soysambu stage for a 27km long race with a spectator stage towards the end. A short liaison of 5km will see cars head to the 23km closed Elementaita stage characterised by demanding roads over Savannah grasslands. The final stage of day two will be the 27km Sleeping Warrior stage before cars head back to Naivashasopa Resort for an overnight halt. The three stages will be run twice. Drivers wake up to a short 6.2km stage, Malewa Bay, overlooking Lake Naivasha. The never-used stage on a Safari event is characterised by square rights and lefts with steep climbs and inclines over an abrasive gravelly surface. Malewa Bay paves way for a newly-upgraded Lodia Stage that is 14km long and closed from the spectators. Drivers will then travel a 21km liaison to the never used Kigio Conservancy for a 24km competitive stage. Kigio gives way for Kedong ranch which is the longest at 37.33km. Some of the said stages will also be repeated.