Fifteen-time European Tour Champion, and immediate former Erope Ryder Cup captain, Thomas and 2015 winner of the Kenya Open Golf Championship, Haydn Porteous have tipped Karen to present a real challenge to new age golfers due to its design as the 2019 Magical Kenya Open Golf Championship tees off tomorrow. Bjorn, who is making a return to Kenya 24 years after he first played at the tournament, says that despite being a great course, Karen is different from what most of the golfers are used to that will make it difficult to play. “This is a great course. One of the few left of its kind. However, it will take a different set of skills to manage this course as it is different from what the new crop of players are used to.  It will test golfers differently. It has small greens and shorter fairways and that will require one to play smart,” said Bjorn. The 48-year-old says he is having a different experience in Kenya this time as he is here to create memories beyond golf. Having fun “When I was here in 1995, it was all about golf but now my view has changed.  Despite the strong field this weekend, I am looking forward to having fun,” he added. Bjorn finished tied on second at the 1995 Kenya Open Golf Championship, missing the top spot by five strokes to Englishman James Lee, but went ahead to win four other events on the Challenge Tour calendar that year to emerge The Challenge Tour Rankings Champion. On his part, South African pro golfer Porteous is happy to make a return to Karen and hopes for similar results as he managed in 2015. “I am happy to be back on the same course that I won my first event as a pro golfer. I have since grown as a player and I can credit my growth to that win here in Karen as it gave me confidence,” said Porteous. He added, “The course is different from what most of the golfers are used to. However, it is the same set-up as the greens I grew up playing on in Johannesburg and I only need to play smart to manage it.” The South African has taken part in the Kenya Open in two occasions, in 2014 and 2015. He finished a decent 48th in 2014 before winning the championship the following year. A Pro-Am event tees off this morning paving way for the field of 156 golfers who will be in action from tomorrow until Sunday.