Amos Abuga @PeopleSports11 The much-awaited Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) election which were initially set to take place today has been postponed. This was revealed in a communiqué from KRU yesterday evening, saying: “Kenya Rugby Union is in receipt of a request to postpone tomorrow’s (today’s) AGM to a later date by the Ministry of Sports, Culture and the Arts. This is to facilitate a for a stakeholders meeting with the Cabinet Secretary, Sports. The board is in consultation with the ministry and will advice in due course.” Three men are seeking to replace outgoing chairman Richard Omwela who is not up for re-election after serving his mandatory two terms. The three are former KRU vice chairman Sasha Mutai, current secretary Oduor Gangla and former director Asiko Owiro who have a wealth of experience in rugby matters. Mutai, 42, has been here before, having vied and lost in 2017, when he was floored by Omwela by just two votes and he will be hoping that lightning does not strike twice when the elections finally take place. “I am running because I love the game. If we say everything is going on well, then we will be lying. If you recall, my journey started two years ago when I lost by two votes. I can say the situation has gotten worse than it was two years ago,” Mutai told People Sport. “Mismanagement and embezzlement of funds has left the current regime with a Sh100 million debt and that is the main reason no corporate entity wants to associate themselves with the union,” he added. Insider However, Mutai will not have it easy since against Gangla is an insider who may have a head start due to his proximity with the voting entities. Banker Owiro cannot also be ruled out. He says KRU needs to be put back to its rightful place. “The priority is to bring sanity to the sport. Presently, there is no accountability or rule of law at the union, the rugby family is hurting,” said former Kenya Commercial Bank chairman Owiro. But as always, election is a game of numbers and it will boil down to who has more with majority of them coming from Kenya Cup, Nationwide and Championship clubs. Whoever will be elected will have a lot on his hands given the Sevens team is on its knees, the union is broke while the 15s team is still without a coach. He will also need to clean up KRU’s image as it is one of the reasons attracting sponsorship has become an uphill task.