When Paul Kemei and his wife Emily Cherotich started the Lemotit Athletics Training Camp, their aim was just to give children interested in athletics from Kipkelion a place to hone their skills. The modest camp in Kericho County was put up from proceeds of running (Kemei is a former Paralymian and his wife an ex-World Youth 800m champion) and farming in 2007 with the two founders inviting budding runners to use the facility. But 12 years later, Lemotit is home to a number of top Kenyan runners, some who have already won medals in global events while others inch closer. Sandra-Felis Chebet winner of Valencia 10km road race last year and Beatrice Chebet who made history as the first Kenyan woman to win 5,000m title at the World Under 20 championships in Tampere, Finland last year are the two pioneers of the camp and since their exploits, the number has grown to 40. No pushovers “The two pioneers had talent and interest in athletics. We nurtured them and after a few months in the camp, they proved to be no pushovers,” says Kemei whose camp has seven elite athletes besides 15 aged below 15 and 18 under 18 who study at nearby schools. Emily Chebet, Mercy Chepkorir, Cena Chepchumba and Caren Chebet are the other elite runners at the camp and there are high hopes that more medals will trickle in at the end of this month given two of their own are set to represent Kenya in the IAAF World Cross Country Championships in Aarhus, Denmark. The two are Beatrice Chebet and Mercy Chepkorir. It is from such achievements that the camp has attracted athletes from far and wide such as Machakos, Narok and Elgeyo Marakwet counties. What is interesting is that the camp is home to only female athletes. So why is this the case? “If you have both sexes here, there will be so many challenges in terms of their needs given the little resources we have.” However, it is not all lost for budding male runners as plans are afoot to include them if the Kemeis get financial assistance from well-wishers.