Mercy Mwai @wangumarci Auditor General Edward Ouko wants the Sports ministry to recover from Parliament Sh2.5 million paid for two MPs to travel to Russia to watch the World Cup last year. In a report tabled in the National Assembly by Majority Whip Benjamin Washiali, Ouko said the money was irregularly paid, adding that the MPs’ expenses should have been paid for by the Parliamentary Service Commission (PSC). The State Department to the National Sports Fund transferred the cash on June 29, 2018 following requests from the Assembly Clerk Michael Sialai. The delegation “In the circumstances, the State Department should pursue refund of Sh2,461,872 irregularly requested and paid to the two lawmakers from the Clerk of the National Assembly,” Ouko’s report read in part. A 20-member delegation comprising MPs Victor Munyaka, Chris Omulele, Jones Mlolwa, Ben Shinali, Dan Wanyama, Sylvanus Maritim, George Sunkuiya, Charles Nguna and a staffer Fred Otieno to Russia elicited public uproar on grounds that there was no value for money. Stalled stadiums Ouko also raised concerns over the ministry’s failure to recover Sh2.4 million from athletes who participated in the World Athletics Championship Under 18 tournament held in Nairobi from July 12 to 16, 2017.  The money was to be refunded immediately the department’s books of accounts for the 2017/18 were opened, but this did not happen. At the same time, Ouko also indicted the Sports ministry over Sh1.6 billion in unsupported expenditures on five stadiums and 10 training pitches across the country. The ministry awarded the tender worth Sh1.6 billion to a Spanish company Auditel for the design, supply and testing, commissioning and supervision of security, access control of five stadiums including Moi Sports Centre, Kasarani and Nyayo in Nairobi; Kinoru in Meru, Kipchoge Keino in Eldoret and Jomo Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos and 10 training pitches. However, the Auditor General expressed concerns that despite advance payment of Sh330.5 million being paid in October 2017 as security guarantee by a bank in Madrid Spain, the guarantee had expired before anything could be done. “It was noted that the security guarantee was valid up to February 2018 and had therefore expired by the time the audit was carried out in November 2018 and no evidence was presented to confirm its re-validation,” the report said.