Construction of the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) from Nairobi to Naivasha has entered its final stages with projections that it could be ready by mid this year despite compensation challenges in Ngong area. According to China Communications Construction Company spokesperson Steve Zhao, they had constructed 80 per cent of the infrastructure, including roadbeds, culverts, bridges and station buildings. Zhao was optimistic that the compensation deadlock would be resolved so that the project could be finished before the year comes to an end. “Before work was stopped in July 2018, the anticipated completion day was June 2019 and with the remaining section of work not being attended to, the launch date may be delayed,” said Zhao. This comes at a time when the value of land has tripled in Mai Mahiu area where the proposed industrial park that will be served by the railway will be located. Tourism numbers According Kamau Njuguna a director in the East Africa Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the project would positively change the face of Nakuru county. Upon completion, he said, Naivasha’s tourist resorts, spas, national parks and hotels would get a boost occasioned by increased tourist numbers. “Naivasha will be few minutes train ride from Nairobi and this will ensure a huge stream of domestic and foreign tourists,” he said. He added that horticulture farmers would have quicker and cheaper transport for their produce via the Internal Container Depot to Jomo Kenyatta International Airport. “This means fresh produce gets to local and international markets faster,” he said. Naivasha Professionals Association chairman Absolom Mukuusi said that the railway would be a huge boost to power producers in Olkaria region. “The railway line will help companies to move their heavy equipment quickly and affordably from Mombasa Port to their sites within days instead of the weeks it currently takes,” he said. Value of land Residents of Mai Mahiu said they were already feeling the effects of the railway line. “We have seen the value of land rise. Contractors have built classrooms, water pans and are even rehabilitating rural roads,” said John Mwathi, a community leader. xyxyxyx Xyxyxyxyxyyxyxyxyx