Today let’s divert from the usual culprits; wannabe models, socialites mwitu, classroom DJs and all. Let’s address a new breed of culprits. These are comrades who have decided to supplement their pocket money by venturing into adverse online activities. Forget those “make money online” cons running pyramid schemes or the Bit-coin merchants who have infested Telegram. There is a new breed of enterpreneurs that has joined the band of online charlatans. We shall call them nude-preneurs. This is because they are making ends meet by selling raunchy images and videos of their bare bodies. These naked folks have a very luring business module. First, they lay the trap on Instagram, where they post pictures that send team mafisi drooling on their timeline. Because Facebook was infested by our parents, uncles, church ministers and all, the naked Delilah on Instagram will be a pietious princess on Facebook to maintain a facade. However, on the IG timeline, our pietuous princess is a sultry goddess allergic to clothes and suffers  from a chronic twerking syndrome! As usual, team mafisi take the bait. The entire pack of hyenas will pitch camp on the timeline, drooling and showering her with compliments: at times getting so distracted by a visible areola that they praise non-existent beauty (sips my turungi). Once there is a multitude of hungry folks urging her to post more pictures and expose a little bit more, business starts. Madam twerk queen opens a ‘premium’ Snapchat account, takes the job title of ‘Exotic entertainer’ and asks those who wish to see it all, to pay and be added on her Snapchat. We recently got in touch with one of these online nude-preneurs, a comrade at a Thika university. She brags about her derriere like it’s an extension of brains or something. We inquired about her ‘premium Snapchat’. Do you know how much these people are charging us to see what nature gave them for free? Sh5,000-a-month! It’s like you’re paying for an extra hostel room! Apparently, she said she has customers almost hitting 100! So now comrades will almost lynch the VC when food at the mess hits Sh100 but you don’t mind paying Sh5,000 for premium picture service! Ways of making ends meet on campus have really become diverse!