The total Startupper of the year second edition challenge has come to an end with winners taking home not just happy smiles but coveted prizes courtesy of Total, a French oil and gas giant. The challenge which was launched in October last year ended this week when the company unveiled the winners at Serena Hotel, Nairobi. Permanent Secretary, State Department of Petroleum, Andrew Kamau who attended the award ceremony praised the entrepreneurs for the great innovative ideas. However, he urged all applicants to align whatever they are doing to the Big four agenda. “The innovative projects that were presented to us this evening in different sectors show that this is for Kenya and not for a single ministry. We all need to come together and support these upcoming entrepreneurs”. Of the 15 finalists, Rose Moses, Founder Green Charcoal briquettes emerged the winner with environmentally friendly charcoal made from agricultural waste. James Nyamai of BioAfriq Energy a Kenyan social enterprise that provides clean and affordable energy solutions for cooking, heating and dehydrating farm produce came close while Abraham Mbuthia of Uzapoint a mobile application for micro and small businesses that helps these businesses automate their processes, connect with their clients and suppliers as well as promote growth using simple and affordable technology came third. “UzaPoint as a wholesome product comes in as the ultimate solution to allow seamless interaction of business processes across the supply chain. It’s designed to ensure that in the future all business categories in the supply chain will directly communicate using one integrated technology,” said Mbuthia. Nyamai from BioAfriq energy aims at having a company that is the most impactful when it comes to offering affordable biomass energy solutions that grow our customers’ resources while conserving the environment. “Our company activities are aligned to contribute towards attainment of SDGs 2, 7,8,13 & 15,” says Nyamai. On her part, Rose says that her aim is to create employment to more than 400 youth as well as create awareness about briquettes which are yet to be embraced by many Kenyans despite them having great potential to reducing climate change and deforestation. “I want to expand to other counties far away from Nairobi to preach this gospel. I thank Total for their support because the money will help me achieve my dreams,” said Rose. Rose took home a cheque of sh 2.5 million, Nyamai sh 1.5 million and Mbuthia sh 1 million.