Mercy Mwai @wangumarci Efforts to save embattled Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) chairman Wafula Chebukati and the two remaining commissioners from office intensified yesterday. This is after a majority of members came to their defence prompting National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi to stand down debate on the matter. Muturi, in a communication to the House, deferred debate on the report of the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) that recommended Chebukati and commissioners Boya Molu and Abdi Guliye leave office until such a time when he rules on whether the report is admissible in the House. This came just a day after MPs, who did not want to be named, confirmed that powerful individuals had tried to contact a few MPs to have the report rejected while others wanted some Members to introduce amendments to water down the report and save Chebukati and his team. “I would like to give a considered view on these matters so as to know whether to agree or disagree on this. I order that the report appearing as business number 12 be deferred until next week when I make that ruling,” said Muturi. Muturi’s communication came after Leader of Majority Aden Duale rose on a point of order and asked Muturi not to allow debate on the report on grounds that this would be unconstitutional. In his argument, Duale claimed that PAC does not have powers to recommend the removal of the commissioners as there was no petition brought to the committee to consider. He argued that the grounds for removal from office are well outlined in the Constitution and they include serious violation to the Constitution, gross misconduct, physical or mental capacity, incompetence and not what PAC used to make their case. MPs Adan Keynan (Eldas) William Cheptumo (Baringo North), William Kamket (Tiaty) and Chris Wamalwa supported Duale’s sentiments, saying the House cannot be used to violate the provisions of the Constitution. PAC recommendations In particular, Cheptumo who chairs the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee (JLAC) that deals with IEBC matters claimed that the recommendation by PAC is an attempt to remove the commissioners through the back door. “I disagree with the work of this committee. This is a House of tradition and whatever we do must be devoid of partisan politics. What PAC purports to do is illogical, offensive and meant to correct an injustice through the back door,” said Keynan. But PAC chairperson Opiyo Wandayi, Leader of Minority John Mbadi, MPs Junet Mohamed (Suna East), Otiende Amollo (Rarieda), Ngunjiri Wambugu (Nyeri Town) asked the Speaker to allow debate on the matter to proceed.