Roy Lumbe @lumbe_roy A sombre mood engulfed Kabatini in Bahati, Nakuru county as relatives and residents tried to come to terms with the demise of five family members in the ill-fated Ethiopian Airlines crash on Sunday morning. The news struck the quiet and unassuming neighourhood like bolt from the blues, leaving utter devastation. And yesterday, the weight of the grief in the hearts of family, relatives and residents was etched on their anguished faces and tear-filled eyes. With chins tucked in their hands, the family of Karanja Quindos, a retired teacher, who lost his five members — wife, daughter and three grandchildren — tried to recount their last happy moments.  They hailed the departed as cheerful souls who had brought so much love all round. Karanja’s wife, Anne Wangui, daughter Caroline Nduta, 34, and their three grandchildren seven-year-old Ryan Njoroge, four-year-old Kellie Paul and nine-month-old Ruby Paul were expected in Nairobi on Sunday morning but this was not to be. Kelvin Karanja said his mother and sister were travelling from Canada via Ethiopia. Yesterday, friends and relatives gathered as they waited for further information on identification of the bodies before starting burial arrangements. Isaac Kamau, a close family friend, said he was lost for words for losing members of a family he had known for more than 25 years. “He (Karanja) was so excited and even told everyone about the plans he had to welcome back home his wife, daughter and grandchildren. It is unfortunate that he has lost his family but we will support him during this difficult time,” said Kamau. Devastated A neighbour, Martin Muchiri was devastated. “We do not even know how to console our neighbour and friend, Karanja. What do you say to a man who has lost his family?” posed Muchiri. In Mbogo-ini village in Subukia, another family is grieving the loss of their daughter, Florence Wangari, who also perished in the crash. Her father, Francis Muturi,  said her daughter had left in 2014 to study theology in Canada after which she was posted to Congo. “My daughter had left for Canada to study theology where she has stayed since 2014 and was later posted to Congo as a nun. She travelled from Congo to Ethiopia where she was to connect to Kenya,” said Muturi. Wangari’s sister, Mary Yongi, said they were in constant communication with her sister up to around 7:30am as she was boarding the plane. She described Wangari as loving and looked forward to a five-month stay in the country with her family before returning to Congo on  missionary work.