I think there are very few times that the law is taken into one’s hands for the right reasons. No one is lauded for it anyway, except one traffic cop along Moi Avenue. Recently, as I was minding my own business in a jav from Rongai, traffic on our lane was stopped right in front of the bomb blast memorial. As we waited for traffic to start flowing again, I couldn’t help but notice the hustle and bustle of Kenyans on these Nairobi streets. Especially troubling is how we cross the roads hastily, almost bumping into pedestrians crossing from the opposite side. Traffic opened up and  the traffic cop moved to another lane. When he stopped that lane, pedestrians crossed. again with the finesse of migrating wildebeest. Just as he let the traffic start flowing, a young lad, possibly a student, whimsically crisscrossed the road , ducking between the now moving cars. Note that the whole time traffic was at a standstill, the young guy had been standing mindlessly by the road. It seemed dangerous but I quickly brushed the whole situation aside. Every day we dodge cars and cross roads when we are clearly not supposed to. The traffiic cop unbeknownst to everyone had noticed the young guy and as soon as soon as the young man hit the pavement, and was just about to make his way towards St Paul’s University, the cop turned to him and smack in the middle of the pavement, landed a reverberating slap on his unassuming face. He slapped him so hard so fast and so unexpectedly that passersby stopped to watch. In the jav we uncontrollably burst out laughing. The disbelief on the boy’s face was livid. He had not seen the slap coming. In fact, no one would have thought that a traffic cop can discipline a civilian so brazenly. His left hand still nursing the affected cheek, he looked at the cop  now pointing a warning finger at him. We could make out that he was telling him about the traffic and when to cross since he was pointing at the pavements and at the cars driving by. As we started moving I couldnt help but appreciate the cop. The world needs more cops like him; saviours. It would be a careleass shame to cause an accident and make everyone late just because you couldn’t  be bothered to cross at the right time. Truly truly, asiyefunzwa na mamaye, hufunzwa na ulimwengu (he who does not learn from his mother, will be taught by the world). I bet that guy now crosses only when the roads are absolutely clear. Have a safe day won’t you.