Kenya Bureau of Standards (Kebs) acting managing director Bernard Nguyo yesterday escaped civil jail by a whisker after a Nairobi court pardoned him from being cited for contempt. Nguyo had been summoned to explain why he had ignored orders to retest fertiliser  that was shipped into the country by OCP-K in 2017. Appearing before Milimani Principal Magistrate Kennedy Cheruiyot, Nguyo said he was aware of the court orders but had not been personally served by the investigating officer in the matter. He said he is willing to comply with court orders. The Kebs boss had been summoned last week after the court found out that he had repeatedly failed to obey court orders to retest the alleged mercury fertilizer said to have been ordered by court on January 15. “I am satisfied with the explanation to the extent that Nguyo was not aware of his role and that he had access concerns. I will, therefore, direct that the summons was necessary for the interest of the supremacy of the law,” said the magistrate. However, the magistrate ordered Nguyo to carry out fresh mercury tests on fertiliser stored Ballore Transport and Logistics warehouse in Mombasa. Remove seals Cheruiyot further ordered that the chief manager of customs at KRA in Kilindini Port, Mombasa to facilitate the access to the warehouse by removing the seals and that  regional KRA manager Nicholas Kinoti supervise and facilitate the retesting. The magistrate directed police assistant be provided by the officer in charge of police operation in that region on March 26 and 27, when the sampling and the retesting is to be conducted. Earlier the accused persons said the initial test on samples of imported fertiliser unilaterally undertaken by Kebs on June 19, 2018, has never been released to OCP Kenya or to clearing agent of Bollore Transport Bernard Oduor. In the case, Oduor is charged alongside former Kebs boss Charles Ongwae and seven others over the importation of substandard fertiliser and circulation of fake Kebs stamp.