Four derbies will be in the offing Saturday when Kenya Cup enters Round 14. Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) and Mwamba highlight four Nairobi matches as log leaders Kabras tour Nakuru. Defending champions KCB will clash Stanbic Mwamba in a bankers derby at Jamhuri Grounds as third-placed Harlequins host Homeboyz in a Ngong Road derby at the RFUEA Grounds. With playoffs and relegation at stake three matches from the top six competition, coach Curtis Olago led KCB will need to stage a better fight to replicate a previous 33-13 round three win to consolidate their direct semis ticket currently sitting second in the Kabras led log. The hosts on the other hand has been in a good form, sitting fifth with 38 points. Sevens speedster Collins Injera will be in action starting at flank and was instrumental last weekend when he inspired the Black Shirts to a vengeful win over the Deejays with a hat-trick to his name. KCB boss Curtis Olago has made several backline changes and shifts ahead of the banker’s derby. Simbas international Tony Onyango will man still-missing-in-action, fellow Simbas International and fullback Darwin Mukidza position alongside three other backline changes. Log commanders Kabras Sugar will be hunting in familiar grounds, the Nakuru Athletics Club (NAC) in the Rai derby at 4pm in a live broadcast match. Nakuru come off a vengeful 20-15 victory over Impala on away grounds and will be hoping to replicate that spirit when they attempt to write off a 50-8 loss to the sugar millers on match Day Three in Kakamega. Kabras come off a 69-0 win over Blak Blad in Kakamega led by coach Henley Du Plessis who has lost once to the defending champions-this season. Top try scorer Philip Wokorach will test Wanyores’ patience whilst the hosts hope return of sevens beast Oscar Ouma at inside centre will penetrate midfield as they edge over the visitors. At the RFUEA and University of Nairobi grounds, Quins host Homeboyz in a return Ngong Road derby while Mean Machine hunt for a revenge over Blak Blad in a do-or-die match. Harlequins beat the Homeboyz 33-15 in the earlier encounter and will hunt a double over the wounded Deejays who might stage an upset to increase their playoffs chances currently sitting two places below the cut. Mean Machine on the other hand need to win their last three with bonuses to avoid a second relegation should they not beat Blak Blad at home, Impala away and Nakuru at home. At home ground Machine will hope to deny Blad costly penalties, which resulted in a 19-32 loss despite scoring three, tries each. Nondescripts and Impala Saracens will be hunting a return to winning ways playing away to Menengai Oilers and Strathmore Leos respectively to wrap up the line-ups.