Former world 800m champion Billy Konchellah has raised the red flag on doping among Kenyan athletes saying it dented the image of sporting in the country. Konchellah regretted that a lot of great sporting talents are being sacrificed at the altar of doping adding that strict measures should be taken by the government and the relevant agencies to ensure the vice is curbed. He particularly challenged the Anti-Doping Agency of Kenya (Adak) to help fight the vice crippling the sporting industry by imposing more strict measures. Konchellah was among renowned athletes who attended the burial of Daniel Rudisha, father of the 800m world champion David Rudisha and the first from his region to participate in Olympic Games. Memorial stadium Retired athletes who attended the burial called on the government to build a memorial stadium in his  honour.  The burial took place in Trans Mara Sports icon Keino described Rudisha, the 1968 Olympics silver medalist as a hero and a person whose example should be emulated in sports. He urged athletes across the country to leave a mark by starting projects to build their legacy once they have retired from sports. “Many projects have been named after me both in Kenya and outside the country. The people of Narok should do the same by naming one of the stadiums and schools after Daniel Rudisha,” said the world champion. Narok Senator Ledama Ole Kina promised to form a committee that will oversee the building of a stadium in the region to be named Daniel Rudisha. While eulogizing his late father, Rudisha said they have gained a lot of wisdom from him. “He has been a source of inspiration to us and community at large. Our dad would never pride himself on his good deeds and neither did he elevate himself through connections. He was also a humble man who never sought recognition for his generosity,” said the champion. Also in attendance was Citizen TV journalist Linus Kaikai. Mzee Rudisha who died aged 74 is survived by two widows, 20 Children and 56 grandchildren. cess story associated with it. According to Kemei, the camp is also home to athletes from Machakos, Narok and Elgeyo Marakwet counties. “I believe we’re athletics training camp of choice because we have done our best to produce track stars. We also stress the need for discipline among athletes and to be God fearing. I have no doubt in my mind this has bore fruits,” he asserts. The Lemotit (Londiani) Athletics Camp boasts of having two athletes who will represent Kenya in IAAF World Cross Country championships slated for 30th of this month in Aarhus, Denmark. Beatrice Chebet and Mercy Chepkorir are set to represent the country in Under 20 6KM race and are the training camp’s ambassadors. The camp is also home to seven athletic elites. They include Sandra Felis Chebet, Emily Chebet, Beatrice Chebet, Mercy Chepkorir, Cena Chepchumba and Caren Chebet. Chebet (Sandra) is the winner of Valencia 10KM road race last year and the 2015 World Youth 2000M steeplechase silver medalist among other honours. Chebet (Beatrice) made history as the first Kenyan woman to win 5000M title at the World Under 20 championships in athletics in Tampere, Finland on July last year. Caren Chebet is the gold medalist in 3000M Steeplechase during the Under18 World Youth championships that was staged in Nairobi last year. The rest have also excelled in their athletic careers. Emily Cherotich who is now employed by the police force is the wife of Kemei. She won World Youth championships title in 800M in Hungary in 2001. She also won gold in the same race in France in 2018 among other achievements. Back to the athletics camp, it hosts 15 budding athletes’ age below15 years and 18 others below the age of 18 besides the seven elite ones. The budding athletes learn at neighbouring schools and after class hours, they troop back to the training camp. Why is the camp home for female athletes only? Kemei reveals “if you have both sexes here, there will be so many challenges in terms of their needs coupled with little resources”. But he is set to bring them (male) on board if he gets support from friends, corporate world and even both county government of Kericho and the national government. He says those interested to join the camp are first subjected to trials to prove if they have talents in athletics. He adds that after this has been done, they are then enrolled in training aimed at honing athletic skills. Kemei says the camp faces some challenges that include lack of room for expansion and training facilities due to limited resources. He thanks Athletics Kenya (AK) and Rosa Associates for lending a helping hand to the camp. The tactician lauds the county government of Kericho for recently feting athletes who have represented Kenya in various events the world over.  During his trainings, the coach stresses the need to shun doping at all costs. He reveals he encourages and advises the athletes in the camp to train hard and be patient so that successes come their way. He targets to produce more athletes who are out to bag more medals in the athletic circles and to go places. Kemei discloses that they are now preparing for Africa Youth/Junior to be held in Ivory Coast. For a custodian who has four league titles to his name, three with former champions Strathmore University  (Gladiators) and the latest one with Butali, keeping his game up is the secret behind his success. ‘At the end of the day, winning as a team is more important than individual accolades,” he said. Dennis Owoka’s charges winning the title last season was their third in five years, having also won it in 2013 and 2015. Even as the new season gets underway on March 2, the champions will have to wait until March 17 when they welcome new comers Chase Sailors at the City Park stadium. “My opponent was very aggressive which caught me by surprise but I adapted as play went on. I think I need to work on my ball pace and do more deep plays,” said Okutoyi.