There is a thin line between entertainment and morality and as Manuel Ntoyai writes, the same performance that can excite one audience may be considered raunchy by another Akothee is no stranger to drama and controversy. Just recently her performance at Papa Remo Beach Restaurant, Watamu was condemned and praised in equal measures. For starters, her lewd gestures included throwing her legs wide open, with two of her dancers holding each apart. She was also pictured with her derriere facing the crowd. Kenya Film Classification Board CEO, Ezekiel Mutua did not have kind words for her. “People like Akothee cannot be role models for our daughters. Music doesn’t have to be dirty to sell. How I wish artists like Akothee would know how much influence they have on our youth, and try to use that influence to produce content that is edifying. This kind is crass, moronic and a theatre of the absurd. It’s demonic to the core and only appeals to debilitating and incorrigible perverts and brainless audiences,” wrote Mutua on his Facebook page. Freedom of expression But Akothee is not looking forward to being anybody’s role model. “When I was broke I was nobody’s role model, now that I am rich and famous, you want to ride on my money and fame… take responsibility for your own children, take their phones and unfollow me. I am ratchet, period, what happened to your church pastors, aunties sisters and grandmothers, no one is paying me for role model position… No one pays me for manners … ” the Sweet Love singer posted. While her critics have been fierce, there are some industry stakeholders who believe that morality has no place when it comes to entertainment. “Artistes have the freedom to express themselves creatively. While we should be guard young children against adult content, we also should not be policing adults. In Tanzania, they have a regulatory board (Basata) which handles such artiste issues. But sadly here, we have to deal with individuals who want to be the moral police,” says Dubai based singer 2GB. “At the end of the day, we are human and when the performances are lit, as an artiste you get into that “high gear” or into the element that makes you who you are. On the other hand, the fan also wants to have fun. So they might be carried away and jump on stage to shake a leg too,” says Timmy Tdat. Sex sells A while ago, the Kasayole songmaker caused a stir following his racy performance on stage. “We also have to mind the generational gap, especially with our culture. Every young generation has it’s own way of dancing and having fun, which might not look so good with the older generation,” he says. Media personality and Kora Award winner DnG says it is all a matter of demand and supply. According to him, when an audience craves for something, entertainers who are also business people, will automatically respond accordingly. “There is demand for raunchy performances. Look around. Check out concerts, clubs, strip joints, music videos, songs among others. It shows that there is sexual content that audiences, viewers and revellers crave for,” he says. “Each artiste has a theme, angle, is a brand and has promise to his or her audience. There is something specific that one is known for or fans love them for. We cannot ask a brand to change just because we do not like it. Surely, we have the option to ignore it or embrace another brand that we prefer,” he adds. “The question people should be asking themselves is, what is morality? When we see people criticising Akothee because of her performances and videos, it only implies that we have double standards,” says Milele FM Presenter and comedian Jalang’o. For the comedian, there is need to differentiate between creativity and morality. Nairobi Woman Representative Esther Passaris wondered whether American singer Beyonce would be equally criticised if she came to Kenya and performed like Akothee.