 Fourth-placed Nondescripts patiently camped on Homeboyz territory bringing in a contact game in the last quarter to score a decisive try at death to win the Jamhuri Estate derby off a 17-16 win in a pensive 12th Round Kenya Cup tie at the KCB Sports Club. The win however did little change on the current Kabras-KCB led log for the Red Lion whose ninth win hit the 40 point mark to remain fourth with 41, a point behind Harlequins who bagged a bonus win in a double over Mwamba to deny Nondies a possible tie. Substitute Saidi Sumba scored off a maul set piece to decide the match at death to see the Deejays pick a losing bonus to up their tally to 27 off five wins whilst remained eighth on the 12-team log. Shifting focus Nondies coach Felix Oja savoured his second win over the Deejays whilst shifting focus to their next clash against KCB on March 16 at the same venue where they ended KCB’s 20-month unbeaten run. “Our forwards laboured for the territory and that was commendable. Against Homeboyz it is always meant to be close if not a tough one but the win does the job and now back to work and lay in wait for KCB,” said Oja shortly after a close 17-16 showdown at Ruaraka. Homeboyz tactician Simon Odongo picked the tough lessons ahead of another rival match against wounded Mwamba. “We had better chances especially in the first half but we did not execute when it mattered most but onto the next match it will be a different script,” said Homeboyz coach Simon Odongo. The return leg saw four matches played in Nairobi and two in Nakuru as the Kakamega sole hosts travelled to the University of Nairobi grounds where they bagged their 11th win to shrug off their first loss of the season, a 20-44 loss to the defending champs who toured Oilers in Nakuru. Kabras most valuable player-cum-league top try scorer scored four tries in a bonus 41-22 comeback win over the hosts Mean Machine who led the match 17-15 at half time. Kabras had won the first meeting on Kakamega courtesy of a 41-3 win. Kabras thus command the log with 54 points off the win as their rival KCB managed a 29-20 win over Menengai Oilers to consolidate the 54-point tie with last season runners-up.  Kenya Harlequins confirmed their double over Mwamba on away grounds to consolidate third-place, off a 43-34 win. The loss for Mwamba who managed a losing bonus was warmly received by Impala Saracens who switched places to see the Black Shirts sit sixth as Impala rise to fifth place off a 38-19 win over Blakblad. Nakuru and KCB roared on Nakuru County courtesy of bonus wins to complete the six confirmed doubles. Wanyore scored five tries in their sixth won which sees them remain seventh with a 33points tie with Mwamba as Leos remain second to last with 10, four ahead of Mean Machine.