A way from the city hotels where brunch is served amidst “great discussions” on how to take Kenya’s film industry to the next level, there is little to report home about. Despite the hype about government projects such as Sinema Mashinani, there still remains an angry buzz among a cross section of industry stakeholders. At the centre of it all are the Kenya Film Commission (KFC) and Kenya Film Classification Board (KFCB). The two government bodies, although with different mandates, have often traded barbs, accusing each other of overstepping the other’s mandate. In terms of funding, the two have been receiving their fair share from the government. But away from the workshops in the cities, there has been nothing in terms of legislation progress, despite the launch of Sinema Mashinani project. The programme seeks to nurture talent and promote creation of films in vernacular to celebrate Kenya’s cultural diversity. According to KFCB CEO Ezekiel Mutua, the initiative is anchored on the manufacturing pillar of the Presidential Big 4 agenda and seeks to use film to create jobs and wealth for talented youths. “Before setting out to launch a project of such magnitude, the board should have done more consultations with diverse industry players and check out the varying challenges at county levels. There are many talented filmakers, both self-taught and those who have gone to film schools, but lack the necessary support to do their craft,” says filmmaker Peter Ogallo. According to him, building capacities at different levels in both the national and county governments needs a shift in mentality and structures. What is applicable in one county is not the same as the other due to infrastructural, religious and cultural set-ups. He says: “When going on fact-finding missions and sight seeing, what real benefits do the local youth get apart from taking selfies with the bosses? How functional are their regional offices? These offices should be converted into film hubs where young people can work at instead of just using them for licensing purposes.” The initiatives Recently, KFC launched The National Scriptwriting Competition with high expectations from stakeholders. Five winners will receive a total of Sh2 million with the overall winner taking home Sh1 million. First runners-up will pocket Sh 500,000, second runners-up Sh300,000 and Sh100,000 each for best student and best young writer. It is such initiatives that have seen a rise of interest from young filmmakers, as schools have stepped up from just acting on stage during national music and drama festivals, to being on the silver screen. Cyrus Mwalili, a filmmaker and director of the acclaimed student short film Run, is of the opinion that more attention is needed when it comes to filming at the grassroots, believing strongly that it would go a long way in nurturing talents in schools. “I believe such festivals as Machakosfest are doing some great job in trying to tap new talents in our children. This has actually been actualised by the fact that students from Lukenya Academy IGCSE were the backbone in developing Run, including its scripting, production and editing. We hope such initiatives will engrave a filming culture in schools,” he says. According to Mwalili, given the necessary support, young filmmakers would not only develop the film culture for the future, but also helps reduce the chances of misrepresentation of facts and unnecessary stereotyping, especially when telling the African narrative. “When we talk about telling our own stories, we also need to envision how these stories will be told to a bigger audience while creating a commercial value for it. The Kenyan film market is estimated to be over Sh200 billion. You can imagine if the proper structures were put in place such as county by-laws and more enticements to filmmakers, the creative economy could become the biggest revenue-generating activity in the country’s economy,” says Mwalili. Systems failure Again, if harnessed, the surge in interest by young people to engage in filmmaking, which has been propelled by technology advancements, can be leveraged on to create an employment pool for thousands of young people. “When I started making films, most of the skills I learnt on platforms such as YouTube. In developed countries there are special hubs where filmmakers not only work from, but also share experiences with others. When I started, it was not easy because I only had a laptop and a camera and yet I felt the need to tell the “Meru story” from a local perspective,” says Danny Prince, the owner of Prince Creations Limited. For Prince, having witnessed how the ‘River Road’ concept worked, he thought he could produce short films en mass, and sell his finished products locally, but it was never to be. “What you see in River Road is a complete system where everyone plays their role; from cameramen, editors to executive producers who invest their money. For us — the late entrants into the game — technology beat us to it because nowadays, fewer people are using compact discs (CDs) and DVDs to watch movies. So, our challenge remains packaging the content into something of substantial commercial value that the masses would be willing to spend their money on,” adds Prince. Currently, he has opened his own studio and having adjusted his sails, he decided to diversify his filming art to tap into the music videos market. “There are few platforms where we can air our local content since vernacular stations are not that many and often do not pay handsomely for the content. I think, if we can have some of these governmental institutions devolved and working, filmmakers in the grassroots could help the industry grow to desired heights,” says the Karubandika and Tea Squad director. Rewarding links Marvin Bruddas set up shop in Malindi, having seen the hype on media about the coastal town. Armed with filmmaking equipment and some capital, Marvin had to wait for months before landing any corporate business. “I have attended numerous meetings and there is need for change in approach on conferences and luncheons. Unlike how they are currently set up to focus on conversations about what needs to be done, shift to a more results-oriented approach. Have semi-annual meet-ups between independent filmmakers and private corporations. Bridge the gap between creatives and businessmen. The meet-ups would open doors to partnership between local independent filmmakers and local corporates, a relationship that would help the industry go international,” he adds. The increase in television channels broadcasting Kiswahili content and the urge by the government for more local content, there has been witnessed an increase in production houses setting up at the Coast where both talent and location favour the filmmakers. “Unlike in the capital where issues to do with licences give filmmakers nightmares, there are fewer restrictions at the grassroots, something which county governments can tap into for revenue. However, caution should be exercised before the greedy cartels dip their hands into the pot,” Marvin says. While the debate on why foreign filmmakers are preparing South Africa to Kenya, issues such as tax rebates, local policies and laws that would protect the fledging industry should be given more attention. At the grassroots, there is need for departmental trainings by county governments on how filming can be leveraged on, to create more employment and also use the brilliant ideas generated to market their own counties.