Nanyuki, a market town in Laikipia county and probably one of the most cosmopolitan cities outside Nairobi, is renowned for many things and many tourist attractions. It is said that the town was founded by British settlers in 1907, some whose descendants still reside there. It is the home to Ol Pejeta, Lewa Conservancy as well as the Mount Kenya National park. Another fact about this town is that it has some of the cleanest water in Kenya as its source originates on Mount Kenya. If you happen to pass by or spend your holiday in this historic town, one of the fun places where you can have a memorable experience is at the Trout Tree restaurant. It is not just a restaurant but also a place where you can learn more on the trout fish and in the midst of nature. It’s also one of the few restaurants on the long stretch of Kiganjo-Nanyuki road. The farm was established in 1978 as the Tamarind Trout Farm and to date, it remains as one of the largest commercial trout farms in East Africa. The gem is constructed in and around an old gigantic Mugumo tree, which may seem like an Alice in Wonderland adventure spot to the kids. Moreover, its windy staircase sets an exciting atmosphere where both children, as well as the young at heart can enjoy. Individual tables and rustic booths under a canvas canopy make up the seating arrangement. The prospect of choosing my own trout fish down at the trout tree ponds before placing my order fascinated me and I watched the person in charge catch the fish fresh from the water, clean it and prepare it for grilling. One thing that is astonishing about this place is the 360-degree view of the forest scenery and the rushing River Burguret as you slowly partake their mouth-watering grilled fish served on a wooden platter; one of the tastiest freshwater fish that has ever crossed my lips. History indicates that the fish is not indigenous in Kenya but was introduced by the maverick Major Ewart Grogan, renowned for walking from the Cape-to-Cairo for the love of a woman in the year 1905. The fish is rich in omega-3 fatty acids, which not only prevent stroke and heart disease but also reduce cholesterol in the bloodstream. The Bottom Farm, which is situated where River Burguret has a hatchery, normal production is close to two tons of trout per month. Can you believe that? I also learnt that the eggs require constant attention, especially during the hatching period when empty egg shells must be removed using a syphon tube and feather. Another thing that’s vital in this season is the water flow and quality as fish require oxygen to survive. Contaminated water means that it lacks oxygen and therefore the fish will die. One can order it either whole or fillet, accompanied by fries, ugali, rice, chapati or even vegetables. Their price ranges between Sh950 and Sh1, 350. Cocktails, punch and juices are also on the menu. Being that the restaurant is located in the forest, a family of tree hyrax lives here and is keen to observe the goings on in the restaurant.  Sometimes vervet monkeys come in, and a troop of Columbus monkeys that swing within the tree look for appetizer scones to snatch. Apart from just devouring the nutritious and tasty trout fish, children as well as adults can also learn more about the fish at the trout ponds, watch the ducks waddling or even spend some time in the vast play area. The restaurant is open daily until 4.30pm.