Alvin Mwangi @PeopleDailyKe The controversy surrounding self-proclaimed prophet David Owuor deepened with the church struggling to explain where proceeds from the multi-billion-shilling property affiliated to Jane Muthoni go to. Several bishops from the church, who came up to defend the cleric yesterday, found it hard explaining to journalists how an ailing Muthoni was able to strike a deal that her properties be managed by one of them. Drugging kin The family of Muthoni had on Monday accused the church of drugging their kin to a point of disillusionment. “We are sure that this church has been drugging my sister so that they can enjoy her hard-earned property without us the family being involved,” said a Njagi, Muthoni’s brother. However, the church said it is upon Muthoni’s free will to decide who manages her property, insisting   she was not coerced to have her estate run by Bishop Lily Muthoni Macharia. “After the church noticed that Muthoni was developing some mental disorder, one we were told affected her mother too, we came out as brothers and sisters after she requested our help,” said Bishop Jane Gathara. Gathara added that she has helped Muthoni, through her law firm, in several cases involving her property free of charge including a case where she was about to be conned Sh70 million. The church also said it took Muthoni to Aga Khan hospital where she was diagnosed with a mental illness.  However, the clerics could not explain why it could not extend a hand of healing to her as it did her son, who the church said was healed of Dyslexia in 2014. The church has also been linked to having seen Muthoni sell a parcel of land in Thika in 2012 estimated at Sh800 million but the proceeds cannot be fully accounted for. Clear record Gathara said the matter will be mentioned in court in May but maintained the church has a clear record of all Muthonis’s properties and that they are in safe custody. “With the huge following our church has we have enough money to fund all our missions. The lord has provided,” said Bishop Gitonga. On Monday, Muthoni’s family said the church has been misusing Muthoni’s money in the name of her serving the lord. “They have been brainwashing my sister. She has on several occasions been denied a chance to get out and get vitamin D from the sun and her skin has totally changed,” said Jane Muthoni. He added that some of the properties documents have since been surrendered to the DCIO as investigations took off. .