A herd of zebras crosses leisurely in front of our group of safari cars. They then stop near a small bush of thorn shrubs and whistling acacias and proceed to stare at us suspiciously. We, travel journalists on a KTB sponsored trip, proceed to take photos and try to identify the parents of the tiny zebra baby in the herd. I guess one cannot establish family kinship by similar looks; at least not where zebras are concerned. After a few minutes drive, we spot an antelope grazing in the nearby thicket. We are in Kanyonyoo Wildlife Conservancy in Kitui, doing a game drive accompanied by a group of rangers and a team from the Kitui Tourism office. Kanyonyoo conservancy spans 33,000hectares. It is a great example of how wildlife and domestic animals can co-exist peaceably as evinced by the cattle herds grazing near the Zebras. The conservancy has browsers and grazers, so if you do not want to do a game drive, you can go for a trail run or a simple hike without fear of being mauled by carnivorous beasts. We manage to spot several other herds of zebras, a springbuck and a few giraffes. Thatha hills, the compass for the hikers, looms in the distance at an elevation of 1,521m. “If you ever get lost, move towards Thatha Hills and you will soon find yourself on the tarmac”, Rachel one of the Kanyonyoo Conservancy wardens advises us. All the animals we view are indigenous to the area. Though there are plans to import animals from other parks in order to increase the variety of wildlife in the area.  After our game drive, we proceed to Kitui Premier Resort where we freshen up ready for more touring. Kitui Premier Resort was established in 2015. It stands in resplendent Kamba orange almost as an ode to the famous Kamba colours. We sign in and are shown to our rooms. The rooms are clean and spacious and are painted a beautiful cream colour and we are surprised to learn that a standard single is Sh3,000 while a single in a deluxe suite costs Sh3,500. Talk of affordable luxury. I freshen up and proceed to pig out in the resort’s restaurant named Bustani Gardens. The next two days are a blur of activity. From knocking off at 3am after midnight conversations over cocktails at the Executive Lounge lured on by flowing drinks, attentive service, captivating companions and soft couches, to waking up early in the morning to go workout in the gym before proceeding to pig out on pancakes, arrowroots and ngwaci. On one of the days we stay in the resort and on behalf of nature lovers and Uhuru Park goers, we visit Kitui’s Eco Park where Kalundu Dam sits. It is a hive of activity with lovers sitting in the grass and chatting over soda and peanuts and that bleary-eyed young love. Some park goers visit the park in search of solitude and laze the day away in the grass, probably in pretend sleep. It is a serene place to sit and indulge in a spot of people watching. “There is something for everyone here in Kitui,” Christine, the Kitui Senior Tourism Officer, informs us. “Feel free to visit us again. We are just two and a half hours from Nairobi. Kitui, no vaa. It is just here,” she concludes.