Kenyan women Friday joined their colleagues across the globe to celebrate the International Women’s Day. The day, which is marked across the world on March 8, celebrates the social, economic, cultural and political achievements of women. It is also a call to action to accelerate gender parity. Gender inequality dominated conversations in the streets and on social media. Feminism groups held a demonstration outside Parliament buildings, Nairobi, to protest the rise of femicide cases in the country. In Mombasa, women faulted the Judiciary, the Directorate of Public Prosecutions (DPP) and police for slowing the wheels of justice for victims of domestic violence. The more than 700 women, who marched along the coastal city’s major streets, urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to declare the rampant cases of violence against women a national disaster. Led by Likoni MP Mishi Mboko, HAKI Africa deputy executive director Salma Ahmed and women in human rights movements, the women attributed the stalling search for justice among women on corruption. Mboko said that it was unfortunate that despite the enactment of laws that protect people from gender-based violence, there is poor enforcement of such laws by police. Referring to the deaths of human rights activist Caroline Mwatha, Kiambu businesswoman Mary Wambui, among others, Haki Africa programme manager Wevyn Muganda said Kenyan power structures that favour men have escalated and “normalised” cases of violence against women. The group had a memorandum of demands addressed to President Uhuru Kenyatta,  police and the DPP, including a commitment by Uhuru not to appoint any individual, accused or implicated as a perpetrator of violence against women to any position including the Cabinet, establishment of a government taskforce (mainly comprising  women) to review laws on violence against women and operationalisation of the sex offenders database in 30 days, among others. Several companies and organisations held various activities to  mark the occasion. Nairobi Securities Exchange held a “future women chief executives and board members” training for women in top management and leadership positions in various organisations to mark the day while Kenya Commercial Bank Group changed its logo to a lioness in honour of women. At Pumwani Maternity Hospital, Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko’s wife, Primrose Mbuvi, donated various goodies to mothers. The county First Lady said the number of women delivering at the facility had risen from 9,000 in 2014 to 18,000 last year. At the same time, Embu West Deputy County Commissioner Caroline Imaya and the Deputy County Commissioner said the government has put in place regulations and programmes to empower women. The administrators said the government has been on the forefront in fighting early marriages and retrogressive cultural practices such as female genital mutilation (FGM), adding that those involved in such practices are culpable and should face the full force of the law.