In the last instalment in a seven-part series, MARTIN MWITA explores how Kenya wasted the opportunity to host Africa’s largest football event because of stalled stadia projects Development of five projects worth Sh43.8 billion at the Sports ministry have stalled even as contractors and initial works gobble up Sh3.8 billion with little progress in their implementation. This is in the wake of a recent Sh1.7 billion scam at the ministry where Auditor General Edward Ouko revealed the money, which was part of Sh3.5 billion that had been channelled towards the hosting of the IAAF Under-18 World Youth Championships in Nairobi in 2017 was misappropriated. The report on “stalled capital projects” by Treasury tabled in Parliament a fortnight ago shows the State Department for Sports has sunk Sh3.8 billion into the projects by June last year. One project dates back to March 2013. Feasibility study Three national stadia, Mombasa, Eldoret and Nairobi at Sh35 billion are the biggest stalled projects. Initiated in August 2015 with a completion target of 2019, the projects have used up Sh150 million, the Treasury report shows. Feasibility study had been done, according to Treasury Principal secretary Kamau Thugge, but the projects “lacked funds”. The largest spending is reported in the stadia infrastructure upgrade and development which was meant to enable the country host the 2018 African Nations Championship (Chan). Initiated in July 2016, with a completion date of July 2017, the venture consumed Sh2.2 billion of the Sh4.7 allocation, even as Kenya ended up being stripped the right to stage the continental fete. Only one of the four venues which had been earmarked for the January 12 to February 4 competition was ready, leading the Confederation of African Football executive committee to dump Kenya over unpreparedness. Treasury has since told Members of Parliament that the project was “unfunded due to budgetary constraints”. “Pending bills relating to completion certificates to date total to Sh1.4 billion,” Treasury has told Parliament even as further progress remains unknown. The State Department for Sports has also been responsible of the refurbishment of seven regional stadia to a tune of Sh2.4 billion. Started in July 2016 with a completion timeline of June this year, the initiative has consumed Sh640 million, with Sh1.8 billion required to complete  the works. “Allocation of Sh250 million was against pending certificates totalling Sh800 million,” Treasury says. National lottery Other projects include the development of the Kenya Academy of Sports Phase One at a cost of Sh895 million and establishment of a National Sports Lottery on a Sh882 million budget. The academy development was started in March 2013 and was expected to be complete by March 2016.  The project has so far consumed Sh641 million according to Thugge. “The project has delayed due to budgetary constraints,” Thugge says in the ministry report which came after Treasury asked all Ministries, departments and State agencies to provide an update of stalled capital projects under their jurisdiction. Treasury Cabinet secretary Henry Rotich issued the circular in August last year acting on President Uhuru Kenyatta’s directive, which also banned the launch of new projects until existing ones are complete. The report tabled before the House by Leader of Majority Adan Duale shows 545 projects valued at Sh365.9 billion have stalled with contractors, developers and a section of rogue government officials having pocketed more than Sh72.5 billion. President Uhuru is concerned over wastage of public funds on launching new projects while hundreds remain stalled. “There will be no new projects embarked on until you complete those that are ongoing,” the President told State officers who had convened at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre in July last year. Viable projects The meeting had brought together government accounting officers including Principal Secretaries, head of parastatals, vice-chancellors of public universities and other head of State corporations. “In view of the foregoing and in light of the prevailing constrained fiscal space in the medium-term, MDAs are expected to rationalise and prioritise viable stalled projects for implementation in a phased out manner within the budget ceilings provided from time to time,” said Thugge in the report. Some Sh39.9 billion is required to complete the five stalled projects at the Sports ministry. The latest developments come as the country’s sporting fraternity remains under the radar of international bodies over malpractices, with the recent being match fixing allegation made against former Harambee Stars footballers. Former Sports Cabinet secretary Hassan Wario and ex-National Olympic Committee of Kenya chair Kipchoge Keino were held responsible over a scandal involving mismanagement of Sh55million.