Harrison Kivisu and Murimi Mutiga @PeopleDailyKe For many years, Malindi was the getaway destination for foreign visitors looking for a memorable holiday experience. The town was known for its idyllic tropical beaches and world class resorts offering tourists quiet and relaxing hideaways. The beautiful beach, a marine park, historical sites such as  the Vasco Dagama pillar and Gedi Ruins, Arabuko Sokoke and Tsavo East National Park have made the historical resort town a must-visit destination. Nicknamed  “small Italy” due to the frequent and huge number of tourists from Italy, Malindi was the dream holiday destination for the wealthy, powerful and celebrities. Italian influence The Italian influence in the town is unmistakable. From restaurant menus and cuisine, road signs and names inscribed in Italian, fluent Italian speaking hotel workers, casinos shows the strong presence of the Italians. It was the town where every investor wanted to have a share. From Flavio Briatore, a former Formula One boss, business magnate Franco Rosso, who owns a chain of luxurious beach resorts in Africa, Italy and Switzerland, former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi and celebrities such as Naomi Campbell are just but a few investors who have invested in the town. The streets were vibrant dotted with many businesses among them banks, supermarkets, high class hotels, boutiques, gyms, casinos. Many of the streets were dotted with bars and restaurants that were always filled to capacity by visitors with round music playing around the clock. However, for the last 10 years, the town has been slowly losing its glory. Malindi looks deserted and lonely. It seems to have gone down with the businesses which used to flourish because of the tourists. Many hotels and villas which had employed thousands of Kenyans remain closed down, thus leading to lost jobs. Bank branches Many of the banks which had opened up branches have closed down, the latest being Standard Chartered Bank Kenya (StanChart) which has announced it will be closing down its branch by the end of April. Ecobank has also closed down its branch. Former Diani Reef Hotel Chief Executive Officer Titus Kangangi, said Malindi has suffered decline in international tourists arrivals due to a number of reasons among them inaccessibility and Italian economic crisis. Many Italian investors in Malindi continue to sell their property and close down businesses.  Kangangi said over dependence on tourists from Italy was a ticking time bomb for the industry which has finally exploded. He said hospitality investors  must be innovative to attract local tourists and from other counties apart from Italy in an attempt to revive the sector.