Two Kiambu leaders have expressed concerns that President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda will remain a pipe dream if he does not eliminate corruption in the country. Former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo and Thika Town MP Patrick Wainaina said despite Kenya being a very good country, it is now in danger of being destroyed by greedy individuals, who steal from public coffers at every available opportunity. They recommended harsh penalties be meted on anyone found guilty of graft to deter others from engaging in the vice. The duo spoke on Thursday during the burial of David Njuguna, who was a member of the MP’s security detail at Kimorori village, Kenol, in Murang’a county. “He (Uhuru) only has two years to do this (win war against corruption) because as we approach 2021, the political temperatures will start to rise and it will be very difficult for him to beat graft in such an environment. We must also extend this fight to counties where corruption is also rampant thus jeopardising the reason why Kenyans opted for devolved system of government,” said Kabogo. The leaders also weighed in on the ongoing Constitution amendment debate, with Kabogo saying it was irrelevant if at all it did not focus on development in the country. “The current debate on constitutional changes is irrelevant without development of the people,” he said. Wainaina urged the president to be ruthless with graft suspects, and proposed that Kenya goes the East Asia way where extreme punishments were meted against those found guilty of corruption. He urged State officers mentioned in graft to step aside claiming they use their continued stay in office to interfere with evidence and intimidate their juniors not to testify against them. “Our constitution is very clear on the integrity of all State officers. If one is mentioned in corruption, they should immediately step aside to allow investigators to dig into any evidence against them. And in case they don’t, the President should crack the whip and eject them from office,” said Wainaina. The MP said if unchecked, the high wage bill could end up overwhelming the country in a few years to come. “The country is operating on a wage bill of about 50 per cent of its budget, which is rather too high. It is uneconomical to run a bloated government which consumes all its resources on recurrent expenditure. That is why I am suggesting constitutional amendments that will do away with the 47 counties and instead run with about 14 regional governments that are economically viable,” he said. He also proposed the scrapping of all nominated seats in the national and devolved units, saying they added no value to Kenyans. He proposed creation of elective posts to cater for special needs and youth.