James Waindi @PeopleSports11 Gor Mahia coach Hassan Oktay has said they have no time to celebrate their qualification for the Confederation Cup quarter-finals, as they have to wait to know their next continental opponents when the draw is done tomorrow. Gor on Sunday piped Petro Atletico of Angola 1-0, to finish second in Group D with the same points as group leaders Zamalek, but with an inferior head-to-head record. The feat earned the Kenya champions a ticket to the last eight where they are also entitled to Sh 37 million from Confederation of African Football (CAF) even before kicking the ball. Speaking to People Sports yesterday, Oktay who lost his mobile phone to pick pockets as he celebrated the feat with fans after the final whistle, said the fixtures lined-up for K’Ogalo were crazy, but tipped the players who are ‘made of steel’ to weather the storm and possibly win a trebble by the end of the season. Gor are currently taking part in three key campaigns, the Confederation Cup, SportPesa Premier League and SportPesa Shield. “It is crazy for us. I predict a very tight future with a match after the other, but we have to get ready and get results in all these platforms. We will take one match at a time,” said the Turkish tactician. Gor who are currently second in the league standings, have three matches at hand, that will see them honour them in order to be on level with the rest. They also have a pending Shield Cup match against Ken Poly, a match which they will play tomorrow in Nairobi. On the continental level where they would be rubbing shoulders with Renaissance Berkane (MAR), CS Sfaxien (Tunisia), Al Hilal (Sudan), Zamalek (Egypt), Hassania Agadir (Morocco), Etoile Sahel (Tunisia) and Nkana (Zambia), Gor who have been slotted in port two will host the first leg against their yet to be known opponent on April 7, before traveling for the return match on April 4. “About depth, we are not badly off. I have, however, identified one player who I need in the team to help us in our campaigns and I have given the officials his name and contacts to pursue him during the current transfer window,” said Oktay.