The Institution of Surveyors of Kenya (ISK) today launched a massive public awareness campaign on land laws. Over the years, land-related grievances, many of them dating to as far as the colonial era remain unresolved and have continued frustrating many land owners, a majority being due to the lack of understanding of land laws and regulations in Kenya and the shifting nature of land conflicts. There has been constitutional and legislative intervention in attempts to address these problems. It is with this backdrop that the Institution of Surveyors of Kenya (ISK) seeks to sensitize the stakeholders, particularly the members of public including the landowners, policy makers and the professionals both in public and private sector with a target of 70% reach within all regions of Kenya. The awareness campaign aims to enable proper sensitization and information dissemination at both the National and County levels. Speaking during the launch of the campaign during the Ministry of Lands and Physical planning Leadership Forum, ISK Chairman Abraham Samoei who led the launch through distribution of 600 copies of the handbook to attendees stated that, “This campaign is a response to the cry by the local mwananchi in understanding and appreciating the recently enacted laws governing land issues in Kenya. Many a time, the information is not accessible on the public domain hence many get defrauded and frustrated in many land transactions. We also believe that this move will enhance smooth implementation of land laws by the various authorities for the benefit of the members of public. The booklets which were distributed today shall also be availed to the members of public free of charge during our outreach workshops as well as a downloadable copy from our website”. Apart from launching the publication, ISK has been at the forefront of spearheading talks and partnerships with the National and County governments in formulating land policies as well as conducting land education and awareness clinics across the country. The purpose of the clinics is to educate and provide vital information to the general public on land matters as well as other state actors and professionals. Additionally, ISK which will be holding its 50 year celebration in May has also been engaged in training and mentorship programs for students in tertiary institutions undertaking land and surveying related courses.