Nyanza Region Secondary School Sports Association (NRSSSA) Term One Games handball defending champions Sega Girls and Kanyawanga Boys stormed regional finals. Unmatched Sega Girls, six times regional handball champions were in a class of their own as they easily dispatched their semi-final opponents Rachar 38-12 to sail through the finals as they seek to make it seventh straight regional title when the regionals games come to a close at Homa Bay High School today. Sega will, however, have Msare to beat if they hope to win the title for the seventh year. Msare overpowered Miranga 30-15 in another classy display by Msare to book Sega in what is a repeat of last year’s finals. In the boys’ category, holders Kanyawanga resisted pressure from Barding to win 28-18 to make it to the finals where they will meet Mbita Boys who stopped hosts, Agoro Sare 23-18 in a pulsating semi-final. New champions Basketball boys’ will, however, have a new champions after defending champions Ambira Boys were knocked out in the semis. In a hotly contested Group A opening match, surprisingly Nyanchwa led in the first quarter 19-12 only for Ambira to fight back to win the second quarter 20-11. Nyanchwa picked up from where they had left in the first quarter by recording a spirited and determined 15-14 lead in the third quarter, but experience saw Ambira turn tables to win the fourth quarter 19-14. The end was, however, near as hosts Agoro Sare ended their dreams by knocking them out with a 65-53 win in an entertaining semifinal encounter. Agoro Sare will meet Maseno School in the finals after the latter dispatched Miranda Boys 77-51 in the other semi-final. Barchando Girls, however, will be in the finals after dismissing Kisii County serial winners Iterio Girls 50-20 and will meet rivals Ng’iya Girls who knocked out newcomers from Migori County Tuki Jowi 46-29 in the semis. In hockey, former East Africa and Nyanza region boys defending champions Kisumu Day are through to the finals after edging out Maseno School 1-0 and will face off with Homa Bay who recorded similar results in the other semifinal against Agoro Sare. In the girls category, Nyamira Girls thumped Dede Girls from Kisumu 2-0 to storm the finals and will meet Amb. Pamela Girls who edged out Kisumu Girls 1-0 in the other semifinal. In rugby 7s, Agoro Sare and Chianda will battle out for the regional glory as well as national championship ticket. At Ruaraka Grounds, Ken Kenyatta’s second placed Ushuru (35 points) who are just off a morale boosting 2-0 win over struggling Nairobi City Stars, square up against eleventh placed Modern Coast Rangers in a bid to make ground. At the same time NSL top striker Dennis Oalo of Kisumu Allstars on 11 goals, will be hoping to increase his tally when the fifth placed lakeside team hosts Fortune Sacco at Moi Stadium in Kisumu. The left footed attacker is promising to go all out. “I am in a good place surrounded by a good team. I want to continue scoring goals so we climb higher.” FC Talanta who unexpectedly drew 1-1 away to lowly Migori Youth last week, have the chance to make amends against struggling Kibera Black Stars. The team is fourth in the standings with 32 points and analysts regard it as a rank outsider in the chase. NSL ROUND 17 FIXTURES: 11am-Nairobi City Stars vs Kangemi Allstars (Camp Toyoyo) 2pm-Administration Police vs Shabana (Camp Toyoyo) 4.15pm-FC Talanta vs Kibera Black Stars (Camp Toyoyo) 3pm-Coast Stima vs Kenya Police (Mbaraki Sports Club) 3pm-St.Joseph’s Youth vs Migori Youth (Afraha Stadium) 3pm-Kisumu Allstars vs Fortune Sacco (Moi Stadium) 3pm-Bidco United vs Green Commandos (Thika Stadium) 3pm-Nairobi Stima vs Wazito (Karuturi Grounds) 3pm-Eldoret Youth vs Thika United (Eldoret Show Grounds) 3pm-Ushuru vs Modern Coast Rangers (Ruaraka Grounds) The term one games, that will be played under the new rules, will feature basketball, handball, hockey, rugby 15s and sevens, athletics, swimming and cross-country. Nyanza Region term one games will take place from March 18-23 in  Homa Bay County.