Reuben Mwambingu, Susan Anyango, Natasha Waithera @PeopleDailyKe Mombasa MCAs on Tuesday tabled a notice of motion to impeach Transport and Infrastructure executive Tawfiq Balala over gross misconduct, incompetence and abuse of office. The development follows weeks of heated verbal exchanges that have seen sharp divisions in the county leadership with Governor Hassan Joho threatening to use his position to influence disbandment of the County Assembly for frustrating the Executive. Two other executives; Munyoki Kyalo (Youth and Sports) and Edward Nyale (Lands) have also been targeted. The MCAs have also threatened to remove nominated MCA and Finance committee chair Mohamed Hatimy. Jomvu MCA Abdallah Shebe, who tabled the motion, said Balala had demonstrated incompetence in discharging his mandate accusing him of discrimination in service delivery, thereby portraying MCAs in negative light. Sign petition “As MCAs, we discharge our duties effectively. We pass the budget in time but there  is nothing tangible at the grassroots. As a result, people who elected us claim we are not serving them right. We know Transport and Infrastructure is a robust department and therefore, Balala is feeling the pressure. If he feels he is not up to the challenge, he should pave way for a competent person,” said Shebe. Meanwhile, hundreds of Mombasa residents have appended their signatures to a petition seeking the ouster of MCAs over alleged incompetence. The exercise was launched on Tuesday outside the County Assembly hall in what appears as an escalation of tough wars between Joho and the Ward leaders. Under  “Operation Fagia Bunge” movement, the residents took the ouster war to the doorsteps of the Assembly where they rolled out a mission to collect more than 200,000 signatures to protest alleged plunder of resources by the MCAs. Those behind the movement are basing the planned ouster on Article 1 and 2 of the Constitution which says “all sovereign power belongs to the people…and the people may exercise the power either directly or through their democratically elected leaders.”