Rebecca Wangari @PeopleDailyKe Several coffee factories have closed down in Murang’a due to decline in production despite efforts by the county government to revive the sector. About 15 factories from Kangema, Maragua and Kandara have reportedly been closed as farmers are unable to deliver enough produce. Most of these factories have been turned into collection centres with the bulked coffee being taken to one factory for pulping as a way to cut cost. Agriculture chief officer Peter Njangi says poor prices have demoralised farmers who were forced to abandon the crop. Meagre earnings He said the county government had tried to intervene to help revive the sector but there has been a major hurdle in processing and marketing of the produce. “Coffee growers got frustrated because of meagre earnings forcing them to look for alternative, better paying ventures” he said. Njangi said initiatives by the county to provide new varieties of coffee and fortified manure under the Kahawa bora programme has seen the production increase by more than 10 million kilogrammes but this does not reflect in the farmer’s pocket. “In 2013, coffee production stood at 23 million kgs annually. The figure has risen to 35 million kgs despite the county having a 300 million kgs production capacity,” he said. He said in some factories, farmers get as low as Sh10 per kilo which is really demoralising. Bernard Wanyoike, the county cooperatives chief officer, said Murang’a is not the only county experiencing problems in the sector. Legal framework He says streamlining the coffee sector is beyond them and can only be done by the national government. The biggest challenge, Wanyoike said, lies in the legal framework regulating the sector as it creates a breeding ground for cartels. Further, he said coffee milling is done by few people and the coffee exchange has limited access. “Farmers do not know how their coffee is graded. Millers take advantage of their ignorance to swindle them off their money” said Wanyoike.