Shujaa coach Paul Murunga is upbeat ahead of Las Vegas Sevens, the fifth round of HSBC World Series scheduled for Sam Boyd Stadium in Las Vegas, United States of America (USA). Kenya in Pool B, will face the hosts and defending champions USA, France and Argentina in search of a first cup quarter- final from a favourable pool according to Shujaa boss. “The pool is good we are against two teams (France and Argentina) that we managed to play this season, won and lost to the same. If we get our plays right then we should be able to win and advance. USA has been on top getting to all finals but it’s a game of 7s, any team has an equal chance to win so we utilize our opportunities well,” said Murunga in an interview with People Daily. The USA tour will see Shujaa complete the hunt in Vancouver the following weekend, a crucial tour for Shujaa who will be out for points to remain as an HSBC sevens core team and qualify for the Tokyo 2020 Olympics. “We target to win game by game as part of our season plan which is to stay in the circuit as a core team and qualify for the Olympics,” he added. Shujaa will be staring at a first cup quarters cut where they will need at least two wins to face a team from Pool C which consists of England, South Africa, Japan and Chile. In the yet to be officially announced as the last edition of Vegas in the USA Sevens Festival in its tenth edition, Kenya will open hunt against the defending champs on their home soil at 3.50 am on Saturday Morning. The hosts won their first USA Sevens title last season at the same venue led by former Shujaa coach Mike Friday. Their skipper Madison Hughes, one of their two players who made a cut in the HSBC Sydney sevens dream, will lead the Eagles. The scoring machine currently sits second in most points this season and is the Eagles highest points scorer in history. The last two matches will be rather interesting as Shujaa seek to restore order against France at 6.28 am and close pool hunt with one against Argentina, last season Vegas runners up 11.58 pm. In Sydney leg, Kenya lost a previous 19-15 momentum over France to go down 17-40 to France and a hurtful 41-0 loss to USA in the pool stages while for Argentina Kenya had beaten the Pumas 24-7 in Hamilton. Respective cup quarter-finals will be played as from 4.46 am on Sunday morning, semis will kick off at 10pm as the final is slated for 3.30am on Monday. Currently sitting 13th with 12 points on the World standings, Shujaa will have a realistic chance to forego immediate rivals on the Standings with the American tour. Last season in Vegas Kenya lost 17-12 to Argentina in the Cup quarter-finals and a consequent 21-26 to Australia in the Plate semis but picked up thereafter to proceed to bag a silver medal in Vancouver after losing 31-12 loss to Fiji. 