Morris Aron @PeopleDailyKe and Wanjiru Njambi Last week’s decision by the High Court to declare some sections of the law capping interest rates as unconstitutional has thrown the financial industry into tailspin with no clear short or medium term ramifications for players or bystanders alike. None of the analysts who spoke to People Daily was clear on the immediate impact of the ruling with a majority terming it as more of “a legal interpretation than practical day-to-day banking issue for another one year.” “It is difficult to see any immediate implications to the financial sector,” said George Bodo, a sub-Saharan Africa banking and finance analyst, adding that the impact will become clear after the 12-month grace period lapses.” Rate mandate On Thursday last week, the Commercial and Admiralty Division Court, in essence, ruled that Parliament has no say in setting interest rates and that such a mandate lies with the Central Bank of Kenya’s Monetary Policy Committee, effectively lifting the law capping interest rates charged by financial institutions. But in an interesting twist, the same Court directed that Parliament rectifies the unconstitutionality in the Banking Amendments law within 12 months— saying that within that period, arrangements to make changes in the law should be made. “In short, the Court gave a ruling and held back on the same ruling. What happens if after 12 months Parliament does nothing on the ruling? Especially seeing that the Judiciary and the Legislature are independent arms of government who many a times have clashed on several issues,” said an analyst who has asked not to be quoted because he works with a financial and investment institution. “Parliament can either ignore the courts and status quo remains, can rectify the law to allow the cap to go on—with or without some changes – but in the correct legal context or lift the ban altogether,” said Bodo. Expensive credit “If Parliament decides to amend the part of unconstitutionality in banking law, then it would effectively mean that interest rate capping has been lifted and that financial institutions are now free to price credit as they please,” he added. Interest rates would immediately jump back to an average of 20 per cent as they were before the rate cap marking the return of expensive credit priced at financial institutions preferences and whims. On the bright side, banks will not have any excuses not to loan Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) and households who they have starved of credit since the introduction of the law in September 2016 with serious cash flow consequences to SMEs and households who have since opted for the much more expensive mobile money credit alternatives. If the cap is lifted, the government will have to forget cheap domestic loans from banks and allocate more attractive rates on securities to entice financial institutions to lend to it. Others say that the ruling will give the current debate on interest rates a timeframe for closure. The majority say that some changes are necessary  to address concerns from banks, SMEs and households. Ongoing debate “Lifting the rate cap in totality will mean that there was no reason to freeze credit charges in the first place. A middle ground would be adjusting the rate cap pricing to take into account stakeholders’ concerns that led to the President signing the law in the first place,” said the analyst who asked not to be quoted. “Of biggest concern currently is credit to SME sector.” Yesterday, the Consumers Federation of Kenya filed a notice of appeal at the Milimani Law Courts after it declared the law that capped bank interests at four per cent above the Central Bank Rate in 2016 as unconstitutional. Through its lawyer Henry Kurauka, the federation says the move will affect many Kenyans who may not afford the interest rates to be charged by banks. 