A case seeking to stop registration of persons by the Interior ministry has been referred to Chief Justice David Maranga to constitute a Bench to hear it. In her ruling, Justice Weldon Korir of the High Court Constitution Division said the case raises serious and weighty constitutional matters of law that should be heard by several judges. However, Korir directed that the three cases filed by different petitioners—Kenya Human Rights Commission (KHRC),  Kenya National Human Rights Commission, and Nubians Society— be consolidated into one matter. The petitioners moved to court challenging the pilot programme of the National Integrated Identity Management System (Niims)  dubbed “Huduma Namba” as the registration of persons across the country is expected to  begin on March 18, according to the Interior Ministry. Nubians Society is opposing use of Niims on grounds that several queries are still pending on the legal amendments that saw its creation, adding that there are no provisions on how the data will be collected. The society sued the Attorney General Kariuki Kihara and Interior CS Fred Matiang’i over Niims, which is aimed at digitising and centralising records of citizens and foreigners in Kenya. Other respondents in the case are National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi and ICT Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru. The society also claims using the new platform in marginalised areas will be difficult and thus unfair. On the other hand, KHRC in its court papers said the National Assembly and the Executive did not seek the views of Kenyans before coming up with the contested registration law and did not explain to citizens how the data would be secured. KHRC claimed the new law requires Kenyans to give personal information for digital registration yet there is no assurance that the system is hack-proof. The commission further claimed if the process takes effect there is a likelihood that the collected data, including DNA information, would be misused by criminals. According to the pilot programme, Kenyans will be required to register so as to access services such as  identity card, passport, driving licence and birth certificate application. Through Niims, one will get a unique identification number known as Huduma Namba and have their biometric data (fingerprints) recorded. A person’s age, gender, level of education, marital status, place of residence and source of livelihood, among others, will be recorded in the exercise.