Nairobi Stima’s George Owoko is buzzing with optimism as he looks to pick another win away at Shabana in Kisii Sunday. Against ‘Tore Bobe’ that is seventh on the log, they however face a hurdle at a harsh venue. Shabana who have recently picked seven points in the last three matches are looking rebuilt and Owoko’s charges will have their work cut out. “It will be tough but we will do our work as required. Shabana have shown promise of late and their coach is a respectable figure in the industry,” Owoko said of his opponents who are handled by Gilbert Selebwa. So far his team is second placed the only unbeaten side in the National Super League (NSL) with 37 points. They possess a potent attack force that has put together 29 goals since joining late last year. To this end of the season, the 41-year-old ex-Tusker and Bandari assistant tactician believes that his philosophy is working right and his players are adapting well. “For me it is about building a relationship first before anything else,” Owoko told People Sport. Meanwhile joint leaders Wazito and Ushuru face interesting prospects on Monday in matches against Talanta and Kangemi Allstars at the weekend. Wazito who slipped to second on goal difference following their recent 1-0 loss to Nairobi Stima face Talanta who also stuttered big time midweek against fast improving Kibera Black Stars whom they lost to 3-0 at Camp Toyoyo. Head Coach Mohammed Mchula is under pressure to make his employers happy against an unpredictable Talanta who have the likes of Rogers Omondi, Emmanuel Mokaya and Paul Karori on danger wings. “We will try and put our recent mishap at bay as we focus to win again. However Talanta is a difficult team which must be respected,” he said of the fifth-placed opponents who have 32 points in the log. The taxmen on the other hand who are buoyed by their recent hot streak unleash their claws on bottom-placed Kangemi Allstars who recently picked only their second win of the campaign. Ushuru are on 38 points as well with superior goal difference after their two back-to-back convincing wins over Nairobi City Stars and Modern Coast Rangers.