Nyuki Starlets have started life in the top flight just like the ended in the second tier by winning one match and drawing in the other to go top of the Football Kenya Federation Women’s Premier League (WPL) table after the first round of matches. In what is their debut top flight campaign, Nyuki who went the whole season unbeaten to earn promotion, are already making a statement of intent in the Premier League. Last weekend, Nyuki came from a goal down to register a 3-1 win over hosts Spedag, their first victory in the Premier League, in a match played at Nairobi’s Stima Club. The win came after a barren draw against Soccer Queens on Saturday at Ruiru grounds. “The Ruiru ground is not a good playing surface and that slowed our game. As a result, we could not score. Our second match was good and we had time to settle in the game despite trailing for 30 minutes. It is a good start for my players and I hope we can maintain the form going forward,” said Nyuki head coach Edgar Akhonya. After a frustrating 30 minutes for the Kakamega-based team, trailing by a goal netted by Spedag’s Harriet Fakiri, Bracksides Itambo broke the opposition defence to net Nyuki’s first goal in the top tier. The match seemed headed for a stalemate but nine minutes to stoppage time, Cynthia Matekwa handed the guests the lead. Additionally, Dubai Amita drove the final nail in Spedag’s coffin with a stoppage time volley to make the points safe. The three points put Akhonya’s charges at the helm of the WPL standings with four points. In second place is Gaspo Youth who have played just one match against another debutant Kibera Girls Soccer Academy (KGSA), trashing them 5-1 to go second on a superior goal difference compared to four other teams that won their weekend matches. “They were good opponents considering it is their first time in the top flight league. We are grateful for the win and we hope to stick to our game plan throughout the season as we look to win the league,” said Gaspo coach Jackline Juma. In other matches, former champions Thika Queens had Harambee Starlets’ forward Mwanahalima Adam to thank for a remarkable performance that saw her register a hat-trick to help them recover from a 3-0 deficit to win 4-3 against Makolanders.