Mercy Mwai @wangumarci The split among MPs over the fate of Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) chair Wafula Chebukati and two commissioners has taken a new twist with some reportedly pushing for a send-off package for the team. Legislators opposed to their removal want the commissioners to be given a payoff if they have to leave office. MPs, who did not want to be named said, just like their predecessors, led by Isaack Hassan, Chebukati’s team should be allowed to quit voluntarily and earn a send-off package. According to sources, the commissioners want to be paid the remainder of their term in office like their predecessors. Forfeited salaries The chairman earns Sh1.4 million per month in salary and other allowances while commissioners take home Sh1.2 million. Before leaving office, Hassan’s team of nine commissioners bargained for a Sh315.4 million send-off package, which included payment of forfeited salaries and allowances and gratuity for the years served. A Public Accounts Committee report has recommended the commissioners leave office because of their conduct and expenditure queries in the 2007 election. Amendments But MPs opposed to the recommendations insist it is unconstitutional. Leader of Majority Aden Duale opposed the report on grounds that that PAC does not have powers to recommend the removal of the commissioners as there was no petition brought to the committee. “The findings of the committee  are contrary to the Standing Orders and violate the provisions of the Constitution. This House cannot and shall not be used to violate the Constitution,” said Duale. The Constitution says commissioners can only be removed through a negotiated exit or a petition to Parliament to constitute a tribunal which would recommend their removal on grounds of incompetence or violation of the Constitution. It has also emerged that some MPs are preparing amendments to the PAC report to recommend that the commissioners be investigated instead of being removed from office. By last week, reports indicated that several meetings had been held to persuade the PAC, chaired by Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi, to allow amendments instead of having the entire report thrown out. “Yes we are trying to strike a balance because we don’t want this report to be rejected in its entirety. We want to adopt some of these recommendations because we believe they are okay,” said an MP who did not want to be named.