Irene Githinji @gitshee Salaries and Remuneration Commission (SRC) is in the process of scrapping some of the more than 140 allowances paid to public servants. Chairperson Lyn Mengich said the high number of allowances was contributing to the ballooning wage bill in the country, which called for harmonisation of the benefits. Review allowances “A study conducted previously indicated that there are more than 140 allowances in the public service. That is a huge number and is one of the biggest contributors to the high wage bill and as a commission it is one of the areas we will be addressing,” Mengich said yesterday in a media briefing at a Nairobi hotel. The commission said it was reviewing the allowances to ensure what remains was an entitlement to a given public sector. SRC is further seeking to have allowances accommodated in the job evaluation principles, arguing that some of the benefits relate to duties an employee is supposed to perform. This is one of the major assignments the SRC team, which assumed office in September last year, took up. SRC said the allowances would be largely determined by the exercise, which would come up with optimal allowances that should be paid. Mengich decried the huge wage bill, currently at 53 percent of ordinary revenue and purely from taxes. She said this goes against provisions of Public Finance Management Act, which requires the wage bill to be not more than 35 per cent of ordinary revenue. She said the number of public officers in the country stood at 700,000, which accounts for an annual wage bill of Sh733 billion. The chairperson cited implications of the high wage bill, including spending less on development thus compromising creation of job opportunities. She said the cost of labour cost should be competitive compared to neighbouring countries, adding that Kenya risked losing out on opportunities, which would have an adverse impact on growth of the private sector. Follow process “What is driving the wage bill is the demand for high salaries by employees. For instance in 2017, there were a number of strikes and we lost more than Sh3.6 million,” she said. Mengich said the commission was concerned over failure by some employers and unions to follow due process resulting in non-adherence to SRC’s advise as well as unrealistic demands for higher salaries.