Ever walked around Nairobi and wondered what some statues and monuments symbolize? By definition, a monument is a structure that was specifically designed to commemorate an event or an important individual. They may include historical buildings, memorials, cultural assets or even archaeological sites and become special to a specific group of people if it reminds them of their history or cultural heritage. I find that some of these monuments improve the appearance of the city, Such as the Dedan Kimathi statue at the junction of Mama Ngina and Kimathi Street.  Here are some of the monuments in Nairobi and their significance: Dedan Kimathi Statue: Located at the junction of Mama Ngina and Kimathi Street, the iconic seven-foot statue was launched 12 years ago by President Mwai Kibaki, and was created to relive a revered freedom fighter and was also a symbol of reconciliation between the British and Kenyan governments. Dedan Kimathi was executed by hanging at the Kamiti Maximum Security Prison and buried in an unmarked grave. Khoja mosque: Located along Moi Avenue is the iconic two storey building, which many refer to as Khoja. What people don’t know is that its original name is Jamatkhana, which connotes a prayer house or a mosque. History indicates that its location was the axis of the old city and was the convergence of Victoria street which is presently Tom Mboya, Government Road which is now Biashara Street and Hardinge Road, which is now Kimathi Street. The Galton Fenzi Memorial Stone: The memorial stone with an orb sitting up top engraved with a rising sun, quarter moon, and shining stars, was erected in honour of automobile enthusiast and adventurer, Lionel Douglas Galton-Fenzi for his pioneering achievements in the motoring industry in Kenya. Also known as the Nairobi Millitary Stone, the monument stands at the Kenyatta Avenue and Koinange Street junction behind a cage to safeguard it from vandalism. It is said that the point where it was erected is believed to be the central point from where all the distances from Nairobi were measured and that’s why it has an obelisk that bears both the names and distances of different towns as well as cities such as Nairobi to Dar es Salaam, Nairobi to Mombasa, Nairobi to Malawi, as well as Nairobi to Khartoum. War Memorial: The forgotten soldiers If you pass by or are stuck in traffic along Kenyatta Avenue, you’ll notice the three bronze men standing tall with their heads held high. The statue was put up as a memorial for the fallen heroes of the two World Wars, they are also referred to as the three musketeers. Hamilton Fountain/ The ‘Naked Justice’ Boy: Once upon a time, this statue caused a ruckus when Maendeleo ya Wanaume Organization lobby group demanded that it be removed as it was demeaning to the boy child. Though most people refer to it as ‘The Naked Boy’, the figure’s official name is the Hamilton Fountain and it was commissioned in honour of lawyer Alexander George Hamilton, who died in 1937. The naked boy symbolizes the fact that though justice should be bare and brave just like the naked boy, it is sometimes as slippery as the wet fish in his hands. Nyayo Monument in Central Park: Back in the days, this used to be a favourite photo spot for many families. The Nyayo Monument in Central Park was erected in 1988 to commemorate 10 years of former president Moi’s rule and 25 years of independence. Tom Mboya Monument: It is said that it took 42 years to finally honour this great man in the very same spot where he was assassinated on July 5 1969. The fountain, as well as the flamingoes under the statue, signifies the well-known Mboya-fronted Airlift Africa educational project that resulted in many Kenyan students travelling to the US for further studies in the late 50s and 60s. Jomo Kenyatta statue, KICC: The statue is located at the KICC and was unveiled in 1973 to mark 10 years of independence. The cast bronze statue, which was created by James Butler, was shipped from England by container to Mombasa and driven by truck to Nairobi.