Former Cabinet secretary Kazungu Kambi has asked ministers and other high-ranking government officials adversely mentioned in graft scandals to step aside. Kambi urged political leaders to stop defending people suspected of stealing public resources but instead allow the law to take its course. He said corruption was soiling President Uhuru Kenyatta’s legacy and attempts to shield Css implicated in graft should be rejected. Kambi said continued stay in office of all officials mentioned in graft scandals was contravening Chapter Six of the Constitution on Leadership and Integrity. “When I was Cabinet secretary, I stepped aside after being implicated in graft, but nobody came to my defence. How special are these CSs for senior government officials to come to their defence?” he posed. Kambi, who is now Coast Development Authority (CDA) board of directors chair, spoke at Boji Multi-Purpose Fruit Processing Plan when led the newly-inaugurated board and staff on an inspection tour of the plant set for revival by May. “During our time, we did not get defenders but now people have arisen to defend those suspected to have stolen billions of shillings. I want the Director of Criminal Investigations (DCI), Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) and the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) to carry out thorough investigations to prove the innocence or otherwise of the implicated officers,” he said. He said those found to have stolen from the public should return the loot to the public. Kambi, who is also former Kaloleni MP, said innocent State officers should not worry because investigators would vindicate them as they did to him when he was found innocent. Kambi was among five CSs and top government officials, who were forced to step aside in November 2015. Others were Felix Koskei (Agriculture and Livestock), Michael Kamau (Roads and Infrastructure), Charity Ngilu (Lands) and Davis Chirchir (Energy and Petroleum). Then Head of Public Service Francis Kimemia (now Laikipia Governor) also stepped aside.