Agriculture stakeholders have decried low productivity of potatoes in the country despite the crop being the second staple food. Kenya Plant Health Inspectorate Service (Kephis) said that potato producers are struggling with inadequate certified seeds as the current production levels stand at only two per cent. In an interview Kephis chief executive Esther Kimani said that most of the farmers recycle potato seeds which are not able to endure current vagaries of climate change resulting in low production. Bridging gap Kimani added that potato production has remained low at only seven tonnes per hectare (Ha) against a potential of 40 tonnes/Ha. The decline in output, she stressed, is caused by shortage of certified seeds, poor agronomic practices, pests and diseases. Kenya has more than 800,000 farmers growing potatoes that contribute more than Sh50 billion to the economy annually. However, majority of them are small scale farmers who produce 83 per cent of the national production. However, she said that there are a lot of initiatives being carried out by value chain players to reduce the gap “Kephis, in collaboration with potato breeders locally and international, has in the recent past made considerable progress in availing high yielding, market oriented varieties that can be exploited by farmers to satisfy most of the market requirements,” she said. Kephis confirmed that since 2012 significant progress has been made after the signing of a bilateral agreement between Kenya and Netherlands leading to evaluation and release of more varieties. To date, 51 potato varieties have been officially released in Kenya. These include 17 varieties from Kenyan breeders, 1 from Scotland and 33 from Dutch breeding companies. Therefore, farmers have a substantial number of varieties to choose from. “So far, 602,450 kg seed potato has been imported since 2012,” Kimani added. For instance, Kephis confirmed that National Potato Research Station (NPRS), working with the International Potato Centre (CIP) has developed several varieties over the years including Roslyn Tana, Asante, Kerr’s Pink, Tigoni, Roslyn Eburu, Annet, Kenya Baraka and Shangi. Last week a potato stakeholders workshop held in Nairobi called for a strong action plan to tame challenges facing the industry and to increase its market share in the international market. Other challenges include low production of seed which stands at only five per cent against the sector’s target of 10 per cent, high costs of inputs like fertilisers and lack of proper marketing. Fresh Produce Exporters Association of Kenya CEO Hosea Machuki said the average annual potato production in Kenya stands between at two and three million tonnes. In 2017 Kenya produced 1.15 million tonnes of sweet potatoes with 1.036 million tonnes consumed as food while the rest went to waste. This is despite the country being endowed with a potential to produce eight million tonnes annually.