President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday said that the war on corruption shall be enhanced and soon heads shall start rolling and those found culpable charged. The President said time had come to take stringent measures to curb the vice which is threatening to cripple the economic development of the country. Speaking in Murang’a during the funeral service of Kamau Kabugi, a prominent business man, Uhuru acknowledged that Kenyans are tired of seeing people being arraigned and released on small bonds. “You are soon going to see people being arrested and charged for engaging in corruption and this will help tame the vice,” he said. He said the Executive took the initiative of cleaning up the Directorate of Criminal Investigation and the Office of Director of Public Prosecution saying the two are very vital in making the war a success. “George Kinoti is doing his work and the DPP is also in a capacity to prosecute these cases,” he added. Development projects He said during his meeting with Chief Justice David Maraga earlier, he told him people are looking up to the Judiciary to see how they are going to handle the graft cases. Uhuru wondered why petty offenders are charged and sentenced fast but cases of those who have stolen millions take long to be concluded. The President, however, cautioned politicians against politicising the war on graft saying that instead, they should unite to help fight it. “I will not entertain politics into this matter because time has come for us to deal with this menace,” said then President. Uhuru said it is a shame for a few people to fleece public funds that should be used to implement development projects. “We cannot be collecting tax and it ends up in people’s pockets just because they have too much greed for money,” he added. He expressed fears that the projects that people are expecting the government to start such as roads, electricity connection, builidng of hospitals and water connections might not be achieved if public funds continue to be looted. He also challenged that MPs and governors to use to money allocated to them prudently so that the locals can benefit. “There is a lot of money entrusted to the leaders at the grassroots and they should also use the mo ey wisely and be held accountable,” he added. This is not the first time that the president has talked tough on corruption but nothing much appears to be happening. Tribal politics Over the past few years, scandal after scandal have emerged with most of them implicating government officials. Among the major scandals include; the NYS, Kenya Pipeline Company, the SGR, NHIF, NCPB,  Kenya Power,Youth Fund, Euro bond and the latest  stalled dams. The total amount estimated to be lost is about Sh900 billion. His sentiments were echoed by former Prime Minister Raila Odinga, who said every individual should carry their own cross urging the President not to  be intimidated. Raila said politicians should not bring tribal politics into the graft war pointing out that the vice has affected the whole country. “Anyone who is stealing public funds is not stealing for his tribe but for himself to cater for their individual interests,” said Raila. He said part of the agreement he had with Uhuru during the Handshake was that they are going to fight corruption without fear or favour. “We want those found culpable to be arrested and charged and let whatever will happen to happen” he said. He pointed out that some of these leaders are running the government urging the President to crack the  whip on them regardless of their status. “For this country to develop, we must wipe out corruption completely,” he remarked. Other leaders present  included former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth, Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu, his predecessor  William Kabogo and Mwangi Wa Iria of Murang’a urged the president to stay put and pledged to support him to fight corruption.