Philip Yegon, Clement Kamau and DPPS More than 15 legislators yesterday told the Director of Criminal Investigations (DCI)  George Kinoti not to “cloud the war” on corruption with politics. The leaders, who are allies of Deputy President William Ruto, said the war on graft had been politically influenced. They also said Kinoti was not constitutionally mandated to handle corruption issues. They spoke even as other lawmakers accused the Deputy President of using some Jubilee legislators to water down the fight against corruption. Speaking in Limuru, Kiambu county, yesterday, the anti-Ruto politicians accused Rift Valley leaders of politicising the fight against corruption. EACC mandate At  a prayer service attended by Ruto in Ainamoi, Kericho county, the leaders said only the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) is constitutionally charged with the fight against the vice. They further claimed politicians out to further their own agenda were manipulating Kinoti’s office. “We support the fight against corruption but it should not be used to undermine development. When will we talk about the Big Four? We must revisit this fight against corruption,” said Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen. Murkomen, who is also the Senate Leader of Majority,  said criminals were now coming to the defence of the DCI. “Politicians and people with questionable character have infiltrated the investigations department. Kinoti is not fit to hold public office,” he said. Profile communities Others present were Energy CS Charles Keter, Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu, Senators Aaron Cheruiyot (Kericho), Christopher Lang’at (Bomet), MPs Sylvanus Maritim (Ainamoi), Joseph Limo (Kipkelion East), Hillary Kosgei (Kipkelion West), Nelson Koech (Belgut), Dominic Kosgei (Sotik), Kipsengeret Koros (Sigowet/Soin), Woman Reps Florence Koskey   (Kericho) and Tecla Tum (Nandi). Others were William Kisang (Marakwet West), George Sunkuiya (Kajiado West), Caleb Kositany (Soy), Charles Nguna (Mwingi West), Githua Wamachukuru (Kabete) and Marwa Kitayama (Kuria East). Cheruiyot accused the DCI of targeting certain people and communities. “He is being used by power-brokers to profile communities through selective arrests,” said Cheruiyot. Koech said the DCI should remain professional. Waititu said claims that there was bad blood between President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy were being propagated by “brokers and con men”. “Our succession formula is intact. We cannot let Jubilee die because of one man. We will remain focused,” said Waititu, adding that the Mt Kenya region would rally behind Ruto in 2022. Ruto said the fight against corruption will be intensified by institutions charged with that duty, saying Kenyans  would not accept entities using political propaganda to drive a scheme to destroy Jubilee development plans. “Our development plans cannot be crippled by selfish leaders. Our legacy will be guarded,” he added. But speaking at the Joy Celebration Center Church Limuru, politicians led by Nominated MP Maina Kamanda warned leaders against disrespecting the President. They said Jubilee Party should expel members who have no respect for the party leader. The MPs included Peter Mwathi (Limuru), Paul Koinange (Kiambaa), Ngunjiri Wambugu (Nyeri town), Maoka Maore (Igembe South), Joshua Kutuny (Cherangany), Mercy Gakuya (Kasarani), Caleb Khamisi (Saboti) Anthony Oluoch (Mathare), Godfrey Osotsi (Nominated) Robert Mbui (Kathiani) and Sam Atandi of Alego Usonga. Oluoch dared the DP to resign and start his presidential campaigns while Khamisi said the fight against graft is not targeting any community or individual. “We are fighting one tribe called corruption and all leaders worth their salt are behind Uhuru,” said Khamisi. Kutuny warned politicians from the Rift Valley region to desist from issuing threats and intimidations to the President. “Those seeking the presidency might end up in the opposition unless they stop chest-thumping,” he said.