Amos Abuga @AMOKC1001 In a nostalgic moment, Tecla Chemabwai, reminisces how it all began. At just 18, she made her debut in the Olympics, not only as a female pioneer but also the youngest member of the Kenyan Olympic squad that competed in the 1968 Summer Games in Mexico. Fifty-one years later, a now a renowned Sports Management lecturer at Moi University, the Olympian emphasises on the need to balance between academics and sports, terming the former an asset that transcends all seasons. The former student of Nandi’s Chepkunyuk Primary School, who describes herself as a lover of sports, recalls how running a combined 10 miles to and from, majorly due to abject poverty, helped define her path. She cannot help but laugh at how athletics has graduated from running for pride during her time to the industry becoming hugely commercialised that runners rake in millions from winning races as well as brand endorsements. Worlds apart “During our time, allowances were Sh3 which later increased to Sh7. That could only get you maandazi (snack) and ndizi (banana). You cannot compare that to what athletes are earning presently, it’s worlds apart,” says Chemabwai. She adds: “Against all odds, I competed in the 1968 games as one of the only three Kenyan female athletes. Lydhia Stephens and Elizabeth Chesire were the others, despite not making past the heats in the 400m category, the occasion has always remained a defining moment for me.” Playing a number of disciplines, like soccer, volleyball, mostly with men helped improve her shape which she benefited from during competitions. Chemabwai reached heights that were unheard of, making history as the first Kenyan to win gold at the All Africa Games when she won two gold medals at the 1973 event in Lagos, Nigeria. “I won gold in 400m and 800m at the continental games. For a young girl, those were revealing moments in my career as I was proud to represent the country,” the sprinter, who hails from Mosombor, Nandi County, tells People Sport. The mother of five (three girls and two boys), has never shied away from encouraging athletes in general and women in particular to take education seriously, reminding them that knowledge is long lasting  while sporting careers end suddenly. “It bothers me a lot seeing so many promising young girls who perform so well in junior races going into oblivion. There should be more girls only forums to discuss the issues affecting the women. We should discuss openly on what is affecting us, the challenges we face, in marriage, in camp, and generally everything affecting our growth,” says the 1978 Commonwealth Games 800m silver medallist in Edmonton, Canada. Value of education “Women need to have a candid conversation, for far too long, I have witnessed ladies being taken advantage of, knowingly or not. Why, for example, will a young lady allow to be married as second, third or even fourth wife? In the long run, she ends up catering for all the families before her. Such should be stopped, that is why most female athletes are still languishing in poverty despite amassing so much wealth from the track,” poses Chemabwai. The 63-year-old, who through an athletics and government scholarship, relocated to the United States of America to pursue her Bachelor’s Degree in Physical Education, Psychology major from the University of Chicago, in 1974, has no regrets for missing the 1974 Commonwealth Games in Christchurch, New Zealand. “I recall, being pulled out of camp, then at Kiganjo, as Team  Kenya was preparing for the Commonwealth Games. My then chef de mission, Sharad Rao, was particularly so mad about the whole arrangement, he  never hid his displeasure,” recalls the veteran. Looking back, Chemabwai is optimistic, her absence was a blessing in disguise as it helped Sabina Chebichi win bronze in 800m. Cases of former successful athletes, currently living in abject poverty worries Chemabwai, she says: “Having former winners as drunkards is disturbing enough. Education teaches one how to invest wisely their hard-earned cash, not throwing it way. That is an area a lot of energy should be directed into,” she added.