Musa Radoli @PeopleDailyKe They are greedy and deadly when it comes to land, and nobody is spared including genuine owners. Worst hit areas by the land grabbing cartels calling themselves “squatters” in the city of Nairobi are Eastlands, forcing prices of land to skyrocket due to increased speculation. The operatives have organised themselves into “self-help groups” operating especially in Donholm, Savannah, Umoja and Kasarani with tentacles going all the way to National Land Commission (NLC). High demand Lands and Physical Planning ministry Principal Secretary Nicholas Muraguri said  prices in areas where “professional squatters” are operating have been forced up because of “false high demand for it.” “Though we do not have the exact figures, but in Eastlands an acre of land  goes for more than Sh85 million depending on the geographical location,” told People Daily. The cartels identify key undeveloped land and present themselves as squatters that need settlement by the commission, disinheriting genuine owners of the land. This practice is also pronounced at the Coast, where landowners regularly find themselves dispossessed of their land. It has since emerged that the operatives go around armed with letters of land ownership purportedly issued by the NLC and are even brave enough to produce them in courts as part of evidence in some of their legal battles. The Commission has since disowned resolutions purporting to award prime parcels of land to the self-styled self-help groups in Nairobi. It dismissed the letters, on whose strength two self-help groups have claimed land ownership, as forgeries. In response to a formal letter of investigation from Buruburu Police,the immediate former NLC chairman Muhammad Swazuri said the cartels operating as self-help groups and business associations have been circulating fake and fraudulent purposed determinations of the commission. He accused unnamed commission staff of helping members of the groups to get the “fake” documents, and which had been used to push out legitimate owners of the land. Illegal activities The letter dated February 27, 2018 enclosed the internal report of the director investigations at NLC dated February 23, detailing the extent of the illegal activities that suggest the cartels have penetrated key persons within the commission. He said some persons have been helping cartels to issue fake determinations. The ownership battle over the 42 parcels in Nairobi with an estimated value of at least  Sh500 million, has previously ended in violent conflicts, prompting the police to intervene. Swazuri told police investigating an incidence of violence and malicious damage to property that the ownership documents presented by the self-help groups could not be verified. Deputy director of Investigations and Forensic Services at NLC, Antipas Nyanjwa also wrote to the police saying: “Please note that the purported determination is a forgery and cannot be attested to by the Commission. I hereby attach the copy for your further action.”  His determination put an end to a long-drawn battle for the prime land in Donholm Estate, Phase 8. Buru Buru Division police were investigating a case where three members of the self-help groups were arrested on several charges, including trespass. Area OCS Edwin Mugera had sought NLC’s help to know the ownership of the contested land. “Please confirm to us the position of the previous cases handled by your office. We are requesting for the minutes approving the determination if any,” Mugera wrote to Swazuri, referring to the groups’ claim that a meeting held with the NLC agreed to grant ownership to squatters, who are members of the self-help groups. Other documents The commission had in a previous communication asked Embakasi Police Division to ignore other documents which the claimants had presented when they sought to be aided to access the land as the standoff ensued. “By this letter, kindly advise all your commanders not to aid entry or invasion of any property using this “determination” as the matter is still pending before the Commission,” NLC wrote. A property developer told People Daily that currently  average land prices in Nairobi’s Eastlands area go for more than Sh80 million while in upmarket areas such as Karen and Upper Hill prices go for Sh55 million and Sh450 million, respectively.