Hi Achokis. I have been in a relationship for the last two years. We have had a good time and I love my boyfriend. But the problem is that of late he has been acting strange. He always seems to have an excuse for not wanting to be with me. He doesn’t communicate as often as he used to. In fact, I’m the one who has been calling him more of late and when I got tired of it, he rarely called me. When I prod him to tell me what the problem is, he keeps reassuring me that nothing is wrong and that he has just become too busy with his new position at work. I’m getting frustrated, does this guy love me or should I just accept that he’s moved on? Our take Thanks for your question. Relationships can be tricky, especially when one has invested a lot of time and energy into it. When suddenly there’s a shift in how things used to be with no proper communication, it leaves one confused and hurt. There could be many factors why he has changed. Could it be that he has found someone else? Is he stressed with the new position at work? Has he recently heard something about you and wonders if it is true? Is there something about the relationship or you that he is not happy about? Men sometimes fear breaking up because they don’t want to hurt their women— so they just go missing in action. However, this hurts the woman because in the long run, she would find out about it. The woman is hurt because the man didn’t have enough guts to tell her, and secondly, because he wasted her time. A man should pursue Whatever the issue is, it was important for him to communicate with you. When you are in a relationship, as a woman, you expect to be pursued. You want to see your guy make every effort to want to be with you. You want to be wanted and the drive for the relationship to be mutual. It is thus important for you to confront him and let him know about your frustrations. He should tell you what he wants and if he is still interested or not. If he is, then he needs to put his money where his mouth is. Let him demonstrate that he is serious with you. Let him take initiative in calling and wanting to be with you. If he can’t do that, then maybe it’s time to move on and leave him alone. Take responsibility for your life and don’t just sit there waiting for someone who you are not sure of.  You are either in a relationship with him or not. If he seriously wants you, he will change. But if he doesn’t change, then he’s not worthy of you. Period. 