Bernard Gitau @bernagitau Wednesday 13 and the Supreme Court, Nairobi, was abuzz with tense excitement as scores of law school graduates waited to officially become advocates of the High Court of Kenya. But of the 230 lawyers being admitted to the bar by Chief Justice David Maraga, one stood out like an island in an ocean. David Mburu, his wig perched on top of a white turban became the fourth Akorino sect member in the country to become a practising lawyer. Happy and enthusiastic, he said the journey was tough but his dream had finally come true. Long journey “We are now four. One in Kiambu, two in Nairobi and I from Nakuru,” he said. “It has taken nine years to get here. I went to Kenyatta University and after graduating took two-year break and then enrolled at the School of Law.” The Akorino are an indigenous, highly conservative Christian sect, with many factions. Male members cover their heads in a, mostly, white or red turban and the women with similarly coloured headscarves. “Ours is just like other churches, but it is looked at differently because it was not introduced by missionaries,” he said. He said many of its members are finally joining politics, government offices and becoming decision-makers in the country. “I feel good that we are demystifying what our church is all about. Eric Muchangi, for example, is the first turbaned MP and we will mentor others to join public offices and even politics,” he said. Muchangi, popularly known, as “Karemba” became the first Akorino member to be elected to Parliament in 2017. He represents Runyenjes constituency. Perhaps the Akorino’s unique white or red religious clothing and worship style that has resisted modern conveniences and stuck to traditional drums has led to its segregation as a cult or faith of fanatics. Fashion sense The current generation is, however, modernising the way of doing things from music, dressing to social behaviour. Motivational speaker and musician Allan Aaron is popularly known for his hit song ‘Kiriro’ that featured Daddy Owen and is a great entertainer who uses ‘kigooco’ music and modern beats to create music that cuts across geographic and demographic barriers. Peris Wanjiku from the Akorino sect known for its conservative and modest way of dressing has taken social media by storm due to her unique sense of fashion. And not long ago, Senior Sergeant Peter Murage excited Kenyans with his unique uniform that entails a crown on the turban instead of the usual police cap. Mburu brushes aside allegations that most lawyers are corrupt and hungry for money saying he is driven by integrity. “It’s a calling and integrity is my drive, justice first and money will be a gift,” he said. He said his ultimate dream is to join politics and will vie for a seat in Nakuru country in 2022 after conducting due diligence.