by Irene Githinji @gitshee Parents are being forced to dig deeper into their pockets to keep their children in school, as the impact of the government’s push for the 100 per cent transition to Form One begins to be felt. Though the headteachers are now asking the government to allow them to charge more fees for construction of extra classrooms and hiring of additional teachers to cope with high number of students, some have illegally been charging more fees in violation of the Education ministry guidelines. This has burst the bubble of excitement over the transition policy and increased cost of learning in secondary schools, most of which are unable to cope with double — or even treble — the  population. As a result of the policy, many schools are grappling with inadequate facilities such as classrooms and dormitories and an acute shortage of teachers. Shift learning Students in some schools have been forced to attend classes in shifts and sleep in tents. Yesterday, headteachers, led by the Kenya Secondary School Heads Association chair (Kessha) Kahi Indimuli, expressed concern over the resource deficit they have had to deal with as a result of  what, he said, was the ministry’s inadequate and unprocedural disbursement of funds to schools. The headteachers asked the ministry to allow them to charge more fees to address the challenges, especially infrastructure and teacher shortages to ensure learning continues uninterrupted. They warned that, unless the  funding issue is urgently addressed, schools could grind to a halt because of debts, adding that the crowding is not only compromising the quality of learning but exposing students to stress and even danger, especially in dormitories. The Kessha officials, who were speaking to the National Assembly’s Education Committee, said they had been stretched to the limit and acknowledged that in some cases, they were pushed to defy the ministry’s directives and  charged illegal levies. Defy rules “As heads of public secondary schools, we will have to defy the laid down procedures to charge extra levies to have the schools running. I know it is illegal but how do we manage?” asked Indimuli. He said schools will have to charge extra funds to take care of teachers hired by the boards of management (BoMs). He, however, said the BoM teachers are not as well paid as those under Teachers Service Commission (TSC) but are expected to deliver. TSC has reported a shortage of more than 80,000 teachers with the situation worsened by the 100 per cent transition. Infrastructure Headteachers also want the ministry to undertake targeted audit to establish the infrastructural needs for individual schools and allocate funds commensurate to the needs of each school. Kessha urged Parliament to enact a law to allow counties to support infrastructure development  in schools, even if education is not a devolved function. Indimuli said the capitation from the ministry is inadequate and is hardly disbursed on time to meet the schools demands, adding that instead of deducting Sh6,000 for infrastructure development from the Sh22,224 capitation, the ministry should set aside money for infrastructure. “The term is ending in the next two weeks but public schools have not received full disbursement. We have been assured that the monies will be disbursed next week and we are asking, when is this next week arriving?” he posed. The Kessha chair said the ministry has only disbursed 50 per cent of the Free Day Secondary Education money for First Term. This amounts to Sh11,122 per student, but he hastened to add that not all schools had received the money especially if their details have not been uploaded on the National Education Management Information System (Nemis). Full account They lamented that, for instance, last year, schools received Sh16,676 instead of Sh22,224 per student yet they were required to account for the full amount. To address the shortfall, Kessha wants the circular compelling schools to deduct Sh6,000 from operational account for infrastructural development revoked so that schools are not seen to be defiant. “We would like to propose that the ministry stops the deduction and recoveries it is making from Free Day Secondary Education. The Sh22,224 per student per year as already indicated is not sufficient to keep a student in school and making recoveries from the same is only making worse of a bad situation. The entire amount should be deposited to the school account for BoM to manage and Ministry to audit,” said Indimuli. The situation has been further been exacerbated by the congestion with some secondary schools running a classes of more than 80 students whereas the minimum should be at least 45. He said the teacher shortage to meet the demands for the high number of students has further compounded the already bad situation. The burden is then transferred to parents, who have had to dig deeper into their pockets to see to it their children are taught, the Free Day Secondary Education notwithstanding. Inadequate infrastructure is yet another reason schools could be forced to charge levies. He said a majority of schools have now been forced to work with makeshift classrooms in tents or under the trees. In others, dining halls have been converted into dormitories and students take their meals in tents or open air. Indimuli said triple deckers have been introduced in dormitories to cater for the big numbers, which is basically dangerous and again, against the ministry directives. He added that as much as schools have been required to release the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) exam certificates, it has been not been possible owing to the huge fee balances students still owe to schools. Schools are also worried over the high operational costs owing to the number of students and especially water and electricity bills, which have shot up significantly. On the textbook policy, Indimuli said there has been erroneous supply of books where some schools receive more than the number of students and students’ lockers cannot manage to hold entire load for four years. He said the policy is not clear on who caters for the loss of books either at the end of the four years or annually.