Kenya Association of Manufacturers (KAM) has been led by women for close to a decade. FRED AMINGA had a chat with chief executive Phyllis Wakiaga on attributes that make them ready for the boardroom QUESTION: Is it by design that KAM has a high affinity for women in leadership? ANSWER: KAM believes in inclusivity. This is demonstrated in the appointment of the first woman to chair the Association’s board in 2016 through to 2018. KAM has been led by women CEOs over the last 15 years. This diversity ensures that the Association remains innovative, comes up with new ways to address challenges whilst staying ahead of global best practices. Q: What would you outline as some of the unique dividends when ladies occupy that corner office and top management? A: Having women on boards simply makes good business sense. According to a Catalyst report, companies with at least one woman director had better share price performance and Return on Equity, and companies with more than one woman on the board return 3.7 per cent a year over those with none. Women also take more initiative compared to their male counterparts. There is a stereotype that states that women need to work twice as much, make no mistakes and constantly demonstrate their competence. Whether conscious of that stereotype or not, women do take more initiative and are more result-oriented in the process. Women in leadership have also been known to develop their employees’ career through counselling, on-the-job coaching, outside classes, dedicated feedback, helping employees set goals and better themselves professionally. Highly developed employees have a greater sense of purpose and satisfaction, are more loyal and work hard, resulting in more productivity and low employee turnover in the long run. Much as they take time to develop their employees, women also take time to develop their skills, to improve job performance, this resonates well with their employees as they lead by example, inspiring productivity. Q: There’s a book known as ‘Nice Girls Don’t Get the Corner Office ‘. From your experience tell us what these mistakes are and what women need to do to thrive . A: Unfortunately, our society has for a long time associated leadership to masculinity. It is time that we nurtured our girls and young women to own their leadership skills as compared to leading like men. Whilst women are now taking more risks, there is a need for them to be heard. This means that, as a country, we need to be deliberate in increasing the representation of women in the workforce and high-productivity sectors such as manufacturing. It is okay to fail, as women we tend to be unforgiving to ourselves. Being a leader is the school of the hardest knocks. Q: In this country there are still few women in the corner office and leadership, are there any unique behavioural changes that women can attune themselves to grow into their roles as leaders? A: This is a societal perception that needs to change. Currently, women represent over half of the global and Kenya’s talent pool. However, their role in realising our social and economic goals is rarely acknowledged, further fuelling this perception. Women-owned businesses are making significant contribution to the Kenyan economy. Their businesses account for about one-half (48 per cent) of all micro, small, and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs), which contribute about 20 per cent to Kenya’s Gross Domestic Product. Q: There is this notion that women were starting to secure seats at boardrooms, however, their positions were inherently unstable, does it still hold? Is it true that women soon find themselves in unsustainable leadership positions from which they would be ousted with evidence of apparent failure? A: We are seeing more women take up leadership positions now, more than ever. Unfortunately, the game is already rigged, particularly on what is expected of women in leadership and their ability to hold such positions. It is important that women are not bound by defined spaces. This will ensure that they shine in their talent and skills in order to make a difference. Since leadership has been associated with masculinity, women’s approach to leadership may be considered as inadequate. However, skills such as resilience are key to having highly skilled and loyal employees resulting in more productivity and low employee turnover in the long run. Q: How would you describe a boardroom without women and why? A: Having the same view of the world limits the pool for fresh, new and innovative ideas. Opening up boards to women brings diversified ideas, products and services. Additionally, women are more inclined to win-win solutions, which makes them find an equilibrium in realising both organisational goals and consumer needs. Q: The best professional advice you have ever received? A: The one who never quits ‘reaches there’. There’s always need for constant improvement professionally and personally – and you have to always stay ahead of the curve. Secondly, it is important to maintain good relationships with other people.