Morris Aron @PeopleDailyKe Complacency in financial reporting by accounting officers in government is making it difficult to audit how budgetary allocations are utilised in ministries leading to billions of shillings unaccounted for and possibly lost from public coffers through corruption. A study by the Institute of Economic Affairs (IEA) that looked at reports by Auditor-General Edward Ouko (pictured) on four ministries of health, agriculture, education and devolution found that accounting officers could not satisfactorily explain expenditures totalling more than Sh300 billion over a span of three financial years beginning  in 2013/14 financial year. Public institutions Kwame Owino, IEA Chief Executive Officer said stringent measures need to be put in place to ensure discipline in accounting for taxpayers’ money as budgeted for in public institutions. “There is need to tighten the requirements on financial reporting standards and procedures so as to increase the level of accountability and expenditure compliance in government,” he said during the launch of an analysis of audit trails of the national government. Owino said that Parliament should play its rightful role by not advancing any more monies during the budget making process until a ministry is able to fully account for their allocation in the previous budget. The findings indicate that ministries sampled could not fully account for up to 50 per cent of their expenditures after not following laid down procedures on reporting expenses while others could not account for as high as 80 per cent of their expenditures. Of the sampled, the worst affected was ministry of Agriculture where up to 73 per cent of expenditures totalling Sh25 billion could not be fully accounted for in 2013/14 financial year. The trend got worse with Sh26.6 billion queried in 2014/15 and another Sh21.6 billion in 2015/16, representing 80 per cent and 84 per cent of total expenditure not fully accounted for. Ministry of Health could not account for Sh50 billion satisfactorily for the three consecutive financial years. A similar trend was witnessed in ministry of Education where Sh90 billion was queried, which although is high in absolute figures, represented about 20 per cent of the budgetary expenses for the three financial years. Financial procedures In the ministry of Devolution, about 50 per cent of expenses could not be properly accounted for, with Sh29 billion in 2013/14, Sh32.6 billion in 2014/15 and Sh38.6 billion in 2015/16. The report notes that ministries being audited could not provide supporting documents on payments, had books of accounts that could not be reconciled and reported financial statements in a manner that violated the laid down financial procedures on accountability. Not following the laid down procedures is associated with intentions to conceal a suspect payment. The report found out that ministry after ministry had variances in cash and bank balances, reported irregular and unbudgeted expenditures, violated public procurement regulations. In addition, accounting officers could not explain themselves out of pending bills, lack of value for money in their purchases, weak internal controls and poor quality and harmful purchases. But while it is all grim in the report, donor funded projects were mostly in the clear except for a few such as the Global Fund to Fight Aids, Tuberculosis and malaria for the ministry of Health, which raised questions on their accounts of expenditure. In the ministry of Education, serious expenditure discrepancies were found in food assistance programme for primary and pre-primacy children in arid and semi-arid areas and disadvantaged urban children project and Kenya Education Support Programme. Expanding access Discrepancies were also observed in strengthening and expanding access to appropriate school education and skills acquisition programme and support to advancement of quality and relevance in higher education science and technology project, among others. In the ministry of Agriculture, fisheries department was the worst affected in accounting for expenditures. On projects, Agricultural Sector Development Programme, Green Zones Development Support Project, Kenya Agricultural Productivity and Agribusiness Project and Small Horticulture Development Project could not justify or explain their expenditure. In the ministry of Devolution and Planning, a series of expenditure discrepancies were found in Capacity Development Programme, Kenya Youth Empowerment Programme, Coordination of Population Policy Implementation Project, Data Collection and Data Base Development Project under Kenya National Bureau of Statistics. Going forward, IEA is recommending stringent control measures on those civil servants who control imprests.