Amos Abuga @peoplesport11 Athletics Kenya (AK) president Jackson Tuwei has declared his candidature for the vice chairmanship of the African Athletics Confederation (CAA) to be held in Abidjan, Cote d’Ivoire in April. The congress will set the scene for the third African Under-18 Championships and the 14th African Under-20 event from April 16-20. Tuwei says his move is aimed at Kenya and the East African region, of which he is chairman, getting adequate representation in CAA as an ex-official member. Terming the recent move by the International Association of Athletics Federation (IAAF) to do away with the 10,000m and 5,000m races from the Diamond League Series starting next year, Tuwei argues that this is one of the reasons the region needs better representation. “I find it ridiculous that the longest discipline will be the 3,000m. It is unfortunate for athletes who have been training for the affected events. My opinion has never changed, sports must carter for all,” said Tuwei. Discrimination directive Despite CAA’s hierarchy currently sitting in the IAAF’s decision making organ, the AK boss is struggling to understand why they never voiced their discontent following the discrimination directive. The elective congress is in line with the IAAF directive that elections be conducted after every four years at continental stage before the global equivalent takes centre stage during the 2019 World Championships scheduled for September in Doha, Qatar. “The last CAA, elections were held in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia in 2015, while the IAAF one happened during the World Championships in Beijing, China the same year. The elected officials from Africa and other continents will take part in the September election,” he added. This even comes as AK’s own elections is behindhand, as the matter is currently in court, Tuweii himself refusing to have his say on the same. According to the provisions contained in the new statutes of CAA adopted in Rabat, Morocco in 2017, regions were supposed to hold their elective general assembly before December 31 2018, before handing the list of the elected officials to CAA by January 15, 2019. AK last held their elections in 2013, when the late Isaiah Kiplagat was elected yet again as chairman.