We bump into her as she does routine exercises at the Kericho Teachers’ Training College.  Her poise and slender frame hardly gives an impression of someone who is over 50. This is Hellen Chepng’eno, one of the country’s veteran athletes who broke the glass ceiling in as far as Cross-Country running for Kenyan women is concerned. Chepng’eno holds the distinction of being the first Kenyan and African woman to win an individual World Cross Country Championships gold medal when she floored all in the 1994 edition in Budapest, Hungary. She remembers that victory with nostalgia. She defied heavy rains and strong winds to win the title at the expense of more fancied names such as Irishwoman Catherina McKierman, Conceicao Ferreira and Albertina Dias of Portugal, Ethiopia’s Merima Denboba and South African duo Elena Meyer and Zola Budd. Barefoot “I loved running as a kid but I didn’t know I would go that far. I used to run barefoot up to even national levels while in school and I could beat those with complete kits. All along, my eyes were fixed on winning a major world race and this came to pass,” she says. But it was not a smooth road to the top for Chepng’eno. Born in Kitoben village, Bomet County in 1968, she started running while in Kiptoben Primary School. She competed in many races and teachers who noticed her talent encouraged her to focus on athletics. Her talent would see her selected into Team Kenya for the 1987 All Africa Games in Nairobi and it is here where she was spotted by Prisons who immediately signed her up. Chepng’eno’s turning point would be in 1991 when she finished second to Tegla Lorupe at the National Cross-Country trials to earn a place in the team to the World Cross-Country event in Antwerp, Belgium that year. Although she did not shine in Belgium, she kept her patience and the following year claimed the senior women’s race at the National Cross-Country trials before the big win in Hungary. She would go on to bag silver (1,500m) and bronze (3,000m) at the 1999 All African Games in Johannesburg, South Africa before she retired and like many former Kenyan runners she is not happy. Forgotten “I used to sacrifice a lot to shine not just for myself but for my country but despite doing all these, I have been forgotten. Why are we not being treated as heroines or heroes?” she asks. It is also safe to say Chepng’eno also left a good legacy at Prisons as the institution has been churning out top runners since, such as Joyce Chepchumba winner of London and New York marathons, four-time Boston Marathon champion Catherine Ndereba, multiple London, New York, Boston and San Diego marathon winner Margaret Okayo as well as three-time 4km World Cross-Country champion Edith Masai. “Athletics will only move to the next level if Athletics Kenya and other stakeholders search for talents in the villages. The country will bag more medals if this is done,” adds the mother of two.