Harrison Kivisu and Mercy Mwai @PeopleDailyKe A day after the Political Parties Disputes Tribunal temporarily stopped Orange Democratic Party (ODM) from expelling embattled Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa, the party’s top leadership has maintained its decision is irreversible. ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna, while reacting to an order issued by the tribunal on Monday, said the party decision was final. In a phone interview with People Daily, Sifuna termed Jumwa’s move to challenge her dismissal “the last kicks of a dying horse”. Last week, Jumwa threatened to challenge ODM’s decision in court. Sifuna said the party had not received the stay orders from the disputes tribunal. “We have not been served with this letter, we are just hearing it from the media and it cannot stop us from doing anything that the party has already decided. We had already written to the Political Parties Registrar, so going to court to stop me from writing a letter is a waste of time,” he said. He said the Malindi MP would serve as an example to rebellious politicians. Sifuna said the party has already written to the tribunal communicating its decision to expel Jumwa from ODM. “We don’t recognise Aisha Jumwa as our member for now and we have already completed our task. We are done with her,” he added. Jumwa got temporary reprieve after the tribunal stayed further implementation of ODM Governing Council’s decision to kick her out of the party over her association with Deputy President William Ruto. The tribunal has further ordered ODM and Jumwa to appear before it for inter-parties hearing on Friday. At the same time, 12 women legislators came to Jumwa’s defence and accused the party of hypocrisy. Under Kenya Women Parliamentary Association (Kewopa), the MPs told the Registrar of Political Parties Anne Nderitu and National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi not to act on ODM’s request until the legal proceedings lodged at the tribunal are heard and determined. Led by Kandara MP Alice Wahome, the women legislators accused ODM of applying double standards on the matter as ODM leader Raila Odinga has gone public declaring support for President Uhuru Kenyatta, who is Jubilee Party leader. “The Speaker must demand to see the process of her removal before he declares the seat vacant,” she said. While on the floor of the House where she made a personal statement, Jumwa accused ODM of targeting her yet she was only extending the Handshake spirit and supporting the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI), started by Uhuru and Raila. “I will be remembered for standing for the BBI as well as practising the spirit of togetherness. I have stood against ethnicity and party extremism and in the end, I have been unjustly condemned,” she said. ODM’s National Governing Council met last week to ratify the disciplinary committee’s decision to expel Jumwa and her Msambweni counterpart Suleiman Dori for gross misconduct.  However, Dori was spared after he wrote an apology letter.