Amos Abuga @PeopleSports11 Ugly incidents of unpaid allowances for national teams have come to the fore once again after Team Kenya athletes who took part in last week’s Africa U18 and U20 Championships in Abidjan, Ivory Coast kicked up a storm yesterday. The 55 athletes have vowed not to leave The Luke Hotel along Thika Superhighway until their allowances totaling Sh80,000 each are paid in full. Kenya bagged 48 medals (21 gold, 16 silver and 10 bronze) in the five-day championships that had the U20 and U18 events running concurrently with the athletes claiming to have been promised their dues once they returned to the country. The runners returned in three batches on Monday and Tuesday and were to put up at the hotel until Wednesday then leave after receiving Sh80,000 (Sh2,000 per day for the 19 days they were in camp and Sh4,000 each per day for the 10 days in Abidjan).  However by yesterday, they were still at the hotel and vowed not to leave until the government pays up. “I have talked to Sports CS Amina Mohamed who has promised that the funds are being processed. According to her, the allowances were approved from the Sports Fund on Wednesday,” Athletics Kenya Youth docket chairman Barnaba Korir told the athletes as he pleaded with them to stay calm. But the juniors would have none of it. “These are old promises that money will be sent to the accounts. Which accounts? These athletes are juniors and some come from very poor backgrounds where parents and guardians do not have bank accounts. Blame game That is why we want our money in cash,” said co-captain Edward Zakayo, who won gold in the 5,000m in the U20 category. Zakayo also claims he is among runners who are yet to be paid for up to five major events starting with the World U18 Championships in Nairobi in 2017, World U20 event in Finland (2018), Africa Cross-Country Championships in Algeria 2018 and the African Championships in Assaba, Nigeria, all of which he won gold. Sports Principal Secretary Kirimi Kaberia, however, denied claims of negligence, saying the ministry did not trust AK and therefore could not wire the money to the federation but the athletes will be paid soon. Korir retorted: “It is no secret that the government owes athletes more than Sh244 million from a number of events. They have to own up since we send our budget way in advance.”  AK has paid the 55 athletes Sh19,000 each for the days they were in camp in Kenya.