Other than watching porn and doing drugs during school holidays, adolescents know little about protected sex – study Evelyn Makena @evemake_g Since breaking for school holidays two weeks ago, *Natasha, a Class Eight pupil has had countless fights with her mother. She wants her to spend more time at home doing her homework, preparing for her final exams and assisting with house chores whenever she is free. Instead, Natasha occasionally sneaks from home to go and see her ‘boyfriends’ to the chagrin of the mother. The 13-year-old is aware that being alone in an isolated place with a person of the opposite sex could expose her to the risk of becoming pregnant. But she is adamant to maintain the relationships with boys from her school and others in high school since most of her classmates are also doing it. This is not a peculiar scenario as Natasha is among 80 per cent of teenagers that admitted to engage in sex during school holidays. In a study conducted by Trends and Insights For Africa (Tifa) analysing data collected between January 25 and April 3, has shown the majority of students have no idea what safe sex is. Safe sex Of the 1,141 students surveyed from schools in Nairobi and Kiambu counties, surprisingly, 10 per cent of them believe safe sex is between married people. “The majority of students have no idea what safe sex is, although 10 per cent believe it is sex between married people and six per cent do not know,” said the study. Overall, 56 per cent of students interviewed had knowledge of contraceptives with more males being more knowledgeable than females. Majority of students, 65 per cent knew condoms as the mean of contraception while 30 per cent considered emergency pills as way of family planning. Another nine per cent were aware of pills and two per cent knew of vasectomy as a way of contraception. More males, 70 per cent considered condoms as a preferred form of contraception compared to 51 per cent of female students. A relatively higher number of females, 40 per cent considered emergency pills as a way of avoiding pregnancy compared to 27 per cent of males who relied on the same method. The study further revealed that over 80 per cent of students were clubbing, taking alcohol or engaging in sex during school holidays. While 63 per cent club and drink, 17 per cent are engage and 66 per cent said that they are likely to be engaged in a religious activity over the holiday.  Another 63 per cent of students are likely to be visiting a boyfriend or a girlfriend during the school holidays. The survey reveals that 25 per cent of all students polled have engaged in sexual intercourse with some making their sex debut at the tender age of 13 years. More male students, 32 per cent had engaged in sex in comparison to their female counterparts, six per cent. At 68 per cent, the media which includes videos, film and the Internet emerged as the main source of information in regard to sex. Another preferred source of information on sex for students was teachers at 63 per cent. The study reveals that parents and religious leaders are not regarded as favourable source of information on sex. Yet, Dr Geoffrey Wango, a psychologist at the University of Nairobi, points out that religion and spirituality are should be a core aspect in the life’s of children as it offers proper guidance especially on issues regarding sex. It’s therefore unfortunate that students do not turn to religious leaders to get appropriate information on how to navigate their sexuality. Pornographic content “The tragedy of students deriving information about sex from the internet is that there is no mechanism of ensuring that they acquire the right information. Due to lack of comprehensive guidance on their sexuality majority of young people consider having sex with a boy or a girl as being equivalent to a friendship,” says Wango. More than of the students have watched pornographic content according to the study. More males, 62  per cent had watched pornographic content as compared to 37 per cent females. Overall, 55 per cent of students had watched pornography. There is a linkage between watching pornography and heightened sexual activities. “Pornography is associated with higher sexual activity. Young people are likely to practice what they see with the belief that it’s the right thing to do,” says Wango. Experts recommend that parents to regulate their children’s online activity, preferably from an early age. Using parental controls on gadgets such as smartphones, computers and tablets is recommended to ensure that parents use age appropriate settings to filter and monitor the child’s activities online. To ensure that children are equipped with the right information in regard to their sexuality Wango says that it’s important for parents to be actively involved in their overall growth and development. “A lot of emphasis has been put on education which focuses on the intellectual development of a child neglecting other aspects such as spiritual, moral, psychological and physical. School holidays provide a good opportunity for parents to guide children in appropriate ways,” he says.