A vacation at the coast without trying any seafood or a rare type of fish to me is a wasted one. Why go to a different place and still eat the same old food you are used to? I had been enjoying the red snapper in various hotels during my travels and wanted to know how to make a dish with it, so I don’t think of planning a whole trip whenever a craving strikes (as if!). Also, I read somewhere that consuming the fish has various benefits including reducing heart diseases. The red snapper has omega-3 fatty acids that assist lower your risk of high blood pressure and heart disease. I also read that it’s low calorie count assists in reducing weight. During my stay at Kiboko Nyumba in Watamu, I met Chef Rama, who showed me how to prepare it from scratch, literally. From removing the scales and it’s entrails to grilling, which was a memorable experience. Chef Rama stumbled upon the profession while looking for work, and he learnt how to prepare various coastal meals such as what we were making. Something I always like to know from chefs, is if they like to play the same role at home. “In my case, it’s my wife who cooks, though once in a while I pop in the kitchen to assist, especially when it comes to new recipes or when a meal doesn’t come out right,” he says. It must be a lot of pressure when your husband is a pro cook; what happens when you burn the food or put a lot of salt, I think out loud. He laughs and tells me that he gently corrects her and urges her to observe keenness, so as not to repeat the same mistake. We place the fish in the oven and I leave for a stroll in the nearby shopping centre. When I’m back, the house is smelling fishy, in a good way of course, as my mouth is watering… Ingredients 1 clove garlic 1 piece ginger Rosemary 1 lemon A pinch of salt Fish curry A drop of soy sauce Vegetable oil or butter Red snapper fish Method Crush all the spices and place in a bowl. Add one drop of soy sauce and mix well. Remove the scales and entrails from the fish. Apply the spice mixture on both sides of the fish and let it marinate for five minutes. Preheat oven to 200 °C. Place the fish over the rack of the oven and place the rack on a baking tray lined with aluminum foil for the grease to fall on. Brush some vegetable oil or butter on the fish then place it in the preheated oven. Let it cook for 20 to 30 minutes till the skin is crisp. Serve with fries, rice, or ugali and kachumbari.