James Magayi An already immortalised name of Eliud Kipchoge added more shine in the pantheons of road running greats as he shrugged off a determined Ethiopian trio to win his fourth London Marathon yesterday. The 34-year-old Kenyan was in his element, leading his supposed peers from start to finish and hitting the tape in a course record 2:02:37. Kipchoge put himself in good stead for Abbot World Marathon Majors Series XII top honours, having already set the fastest time in the series opening race in Berlin, Germany last year. Kipchoge has 50 points, nine ahead of Ethiopia’s Lelisa Desisa in the race for the $1million (Sh100 million) jackpot which is equally shared out by the women’s winner. In the women’s equivalent, on-form Chicago marathon winner Brigid Kosgei upset a more decorated cast to register her second victory in the Majors Series run in 2:18:20. Kosgei dethroned Vivian Cheruiyot who crossed the line second in 2:20:14 while three-time London winner Mary Keitany fizzled out to fifth behind the fastest woman of 2018 Gladys Cherono. The women’s race was predicted to be tough but Kosgei made light work of the field from the 30th kilometre as she raced alone to deny the race a tight finish envisaged by organisers. Kosegei was in the leading pack but outside the top 10 during the first five kilometres which Bahrain’s Eunice Chumba reached first in 16:56. Kosgei, however, reeled in on the race leaders gradually, easing into the leading pack at the 10km point. She was ninth. At the 15km mark, she moved into seventh position then fourth at 20km mark. She moved into third spot at halfway point with Chumba leading the field to a searing 1:11:21. Australian Diver Sinead was still hanging on after a blistering start with Cheruiyot, Roza Dereje and Birhane Dibaba all in the contest. Keitany and Gladys Cherono and Linet Masai were still in the mix. The Kenyan-turned Bahraini led the field at the 25km mark after which Kosgei zoomed off never to be passed by anyone again. She clocked 1:39:44 at the 30km mark with a three-second lead on Cheruiyot. Cherono, Dereje and Keitany were further one minute behind. Kosgei then shrugged off the defending champion with a burst of pace that Cheruiyot failed to counter. The gap widened with the finish line nearing as Kosgei commanded a minute’s lead on Cheruiyot who was despairing. She watched Kosgei zoom into the horizon and ceded her title as Dereje reeled in and passed Cherono to complete the podium. Tactical In the men’s race, Kipchoge was tactical from the gun and even more astute after the striped pace setters fell off. It was him against the rich field comprising former record holder Wilson Kipsang, 2017 London winner Daniel Wanjiru, controversial homeboy Mo Farah and the battle-hardened Ethiopian cast of Geremew Mosinet, Mule Wasihun, Shura Kitata and Tamirat Tola. The men huddled together from the gun-off with Kipchoge just behind pace setters. The Ethiopian case seemed to have a plan; stopping Kipchoge and they executed it impressively, until the later stages of the race when they could not. Indefatigable Tola, Kitata and Mosinet crowded behind Kipchoge through a fluctuating pace over the 5km splits. It was anyone’s race by the halfway point with Kipchoge clocking 1:01:37 ahead of the pack. Mo Farah was one stride behind but the boys started separating from men just into the final half. Kipsang and Wanjiru fell back 30 seconds behind leaving Kipchoge saddled a determinedly strong Ethiopian quartet. Tamirat Tola succumbed to the searing pace and fell back to seventh by the 35km mark leaving Mosinet, Kitata and Mule tracking Kipchoge. Farah was a distant fifth and out of title contest. Jubilant Kipchoge then worked his mind games on the Ethiopians, urging them to move ahead. None complied, the three runners choosing to trail him closely. The Kenyan then upped his pace forcing Kitata, the most dreaded of three Ethiopians in his trail to fall back. He led Mosinet and Mule through the 40km mark in 1:56:20, just two seconds ahead but after a final water point which the Ethiopians overlooked Kipchoge engaged a high gear. He pulled away leaving Mosinet in his wake with nothing left to counter the wild burst in pace. With the finish line in sight Kipchoge punched the air and waved to the jubilant fans as he wheeled away to his 11th marathon victory in 12.