May is here! This month means a lot in Campus. It marks a new era in campo, where the first batch of naive freshers finally land to the delight of hungry Team Mafisi who have been anticipating in thirst for the young beauties since the January drought! As usual, I will play the good guy and give a word of advice to these young lasses who are now jumping up and down bragging how they are set to join campus, not knowing that they could soon get pregnant and drop out before Labour Day (pardon the pun). When you join these glorified colleges, kindly try to blend in. The worst a fresher can do is exhibit greenness and the naivety of a fresher. If you can be easily handpicked from a crowd, you will soon be entangled in a middle of a web by a horde of idle certificate guys lying that they are third year engineering geeks and it’s not long before the singular you is promoted to a plural being! In the first semester, just blend in. Lose that village accent and high school sheng even before you reach the gate. If you have carried long skirt suits thinking you have come to an official setting, no thank you. Preserve those till when you begin visiting your mother-in-law or in third year when you go for internship. Just pass along a place called Ngara and buy some hideous leggings and stripped skirts. Then there is that metallic box that you have owned since you went to boarding school. Well, that beloved piece of metal that has devotedly protected your little earthly belongings is now not important anymore. Yes, things get stolen, but here, but it’s class before safety. Get a classy suitcase when coming; don’t embarrass yourself with a jua kali box that will make you look like a cadet headed to a training camp! Going to an institution of higher learning is always met with excitement from friends and family. Here, however, we do not have colourful ceremonies for freshers. Just a short orientation and you shall be set off to a jungle where hungry fisis are awaiting with bated breath. So do not bring normal procedure to a standstill by having your entire village hire a school bus to escort you to campus with song and dance. That is only done upon graduation, if at all you will be smart enough to last the period. As for male freshers, keep off second, third and fourth year lasses; they belong to sponsors. If you try to chase after them, they shall tell you off in tongues. Equally, keep off freshers! They belong to elders… second years and above. In short, you are not allowed to have a girlfriend from campus till next year when new freshers join.