DPPS Jubilee leaders have dismissed claims there are different factions in the ruling party. They said opposition leaders are working hard to create confusion and division with the aim of scuttling the party’s vision for the country ahead of 2022 elections. The leaders included Governor Mutahi Kahiga (Nyeri), MPs Kimani Ichungwa (Kikuyu), Moses Kuria (Gatundu South), Rahab Mukami  (Nyeri Woman Rep), Samuel Gachobe (Subukia), Sabina Chege (Murang’a Woman Rep), Gichomo Githinji (Gichugu), Antony Kiai (Murkurweini), Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira), Gichuki Mugambi (Othaya), Jeremiah Kioni (Maragua), James Gichuhi (Tetu) and Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu. Speaking at the African Independent Pentecostal Church (AIPCA) in Nyeri during an event attended by Deputy President William Ruto, Githinji said some Jubilee leaders were working in cahoots with the opposition to create an impression that there was division in the party. Ruto urged Jubilee leaders to stop engaging in activities aimed at undermining the implementation of the Big Four agenda. “I want leaders to relax and stop focusing on politics. Let’s focus our energies on serving our people because Kenyans will make the decision on their leaders when the time comes,” he said. He said the government has formed a sub-committee to look into ways of addressing the challenges of drought currently ravaging the country. “We have today  (Thursday) formed a Cabinet committee to deal with the challenges of hunger that is currently being witnessed in the country,” said Ruto. Kuria urged leaders to focus their energies on development, saying when elections comes Kenyans will decide on their leaders. Kahiga said leaders should work together in addressing the challenges facing Kenyans. Ichungwa said Jubilee leaders would jealously guard the party’s unity and focus on development. “As Jubilee, we shall vigorously defend the unity and focus of our party because that’s the right thing to do for our nation. Let’s stop unnecessary noise and serve Kenyans,” he said.