London, Monday @PeopleSports11 As the single biggest annual fundraising event on the planet burst through the billion-pound mark, there was so much to admire about Sunday’s London Marathon. It is a joyous occasion, a million finishers over the last 39 years with a million different stories, entwined with some iconic British sporting moments. From that first edition in 1981 one fondly recalls the waiter who managed to run close to three hours while carrying a bottle of water on a tray as well as the beautiful, if mildly disappointing, conclusion to the elite race when Dick Beardsley and Inge Simonsen opted to hold hands across the finish line rather than fight it out for the win. However, there is no denying that elite marathon running has evolved in a manner that now invites cynicism and not just because of these shoes that Nike even market as a product that gives a four or five per cent advantage. The shoe is a concern, of course, when the latest version enjoyed sole occupancy of both the men’s and women’s podiums on Sunday and invites questions over whether it amounts to technological doping. Doping cloud More troubling, however, is the progression in recent years of the marathon world record and the emergence of so many athletes capable of running astonishingly fast. Eight months ago, the world record was 2.02.57 but on Sunday, four runners were inside that pace after 18 miles. By the time they finished, two had crossed the line faster than the record Eliud Kipchoge obliterated with his 2.01.39 in Berlin last September, and London now boasts the fastest second and third placed runners in history. This despite weather conditions that meant there was a headwind for two thirds of the race. There is no suggestion of any wrongdoing by the runner Steve Cram gushingly referred to as ‘the boss’ on Sunday, but Kipchoge is rewriting the record books when his native Kenya is in the midst of a major doping crisis and there are widespread concerns about anti-doping standards in Ethiopia. No longer do we blindly attribute African brilliance to being born at altitude and running to and from school everyday. No longer do we accept the explanation, given to reporters by Kenyan coaches when Farah was training there in 2014, that it was the nearly-men and women who were cheating, ‘not the top guys’. Clearly that isn’t true. Among those who have been exposed is Jemima Sumgong, the winner of the women’s Olympic marathon in Rio, Asbel Kiprop, an Olympic 1,500m champion, and Abraham Kiptum, the world record holder for the half-marathon who was withdrawn from this race on Friday after the IAAF provisionally suspended him for an athlete biological passport violation. Kiptum came to London as one of the favourites but succeeded only in adding to the credibility issue that — in fairness to the Marathon Majors — they are trying to combat with the funding of extra drug tests for the finest athletes over 26 miles. Yet can we really believe everything we are seeing when Callum Hawkins comes within seconds of the world record Steve Jones ran in 1984 and finishes 10th, more than a mile and almost six minutes behind the winner? Enormous strides There are track and field world records, admittedly highly questionable ones, that have survived since the 80s but distance running seemed to make enormous strides when EPO became the drug of choice in endurance sport in the 1990s and, judging by some of the Kenyan positives, remains popular with athletics cheats. So perhaps the best thing to do is enjoy the bloke called Aston Martin running dressed as a car, and the remarkable efforts of Kate Carter who became the fastest female in an animal suit when she ran 3.48 dressed as a panda. Because in 2019 it’s becoming more difficult to watch the professionals without a hint of caution.                          –DAILYMAIL