In most countries across Africa and parts of the Third World, the music industry is largely perceived as an informal sector, wherein basic labour rights are often hardly applicable. This is despite the fact that varied forms of musical expressions thrive in myriad spheres, as a formidable and distinctive force that defines the pulse of social, cultural and communal activities. EMMANUEL MWENDWA explores The lack of appropriate and functional music industry structures in comparison to those in developed countries has resulted in most players in the sector having to grapple with almost endless hurdles. Owing to this dilemma, commonplace across the continent, over the past five years, France-based International Federation of Musicians (FIM) has rolled out awareness and empowerment programmes in several African countries. A series of subsequent training workshops for musicians have been held across the continent, with key focus being addressing numerous odds that upcoming musicians particularly experience. One of the most important messages coming out of these forums has been the need – just as other labour unions workers – for the right to full recognition of the professional activities revolving around musicians in Africa. Some of the beneficiary nations in this quest to streamline operations for musicians’ unions across Africa include Kenya, Ghana, Senegal, Malawi, Tanzania and Uganda. Established in 1948 with membership drawn from 60 countries around the world, FIM serves the role of co-ordinating activities as a global organisation for musicians’ unions and professional associations. REGRET The Federation’s assistant general secretary Thomas Dayan has visited Kenya on numerous instances, including this year, previously expressing regret that Kenya is yet to grant official registration. Notably, the existence of a functional union would significantly enable the umbrella body to specifically cater for musicians’ welfare as professionals rather than happy-go-lucky music makers pursuing the craft as a hobby. Some suggestions raised at the training workshops, for instance, sought to encourage players in the sector to embrace the Collective Bargaining Agreement concept, more so to address the plight of especially budding musicians. The issue of potential conflicts hinged around an array of odds posed by lack of formal live performance contracts in most concert venues also triggered heated deliberations. Last month, after being licenced by The Kenya Copyrights Board, three collective management organisations vowed to implement all conditions set by the regulatory body, including distribution of 70 per cent of revenues collected. The Kenya Association of Music Producers (KAMP), Performers Rights Society of Kenya (PRISK) and Music Copyright Society of Kenya (MCSK), through their chairmen, stated that they will only take 30 per cent of the money collected and are also planning to put in place a digital system that will enhance licensing and ensure precise distribution of royalties. “We remain committed to implementing the new joint licensing tariffs. We will be calling for proposals for the acquisition of a new digital licensing system that will enable rights users to pay for and get their licence online,” MCSK chairman Japheth Kassanga said. Multiple impediments hampering local music industry’s growth have been addressed at the FIM forums with an objective to initiate strategies that also enhance inclusivity of gender equitability in the sector. “There is a pressing need to prioritise policies to effectively tackle gender issues in relation to discrimination, injustices and societal stigmas against female musicians,” remarks John Katana, interim secretary general, Kenya Musicians Union. The often unspoken dilemma over rampant sexualisation and harassment of female artistes in search of advancing individual careers gave rise to the unanimous Dar-es-Salaam Declaration on Gender Equality in the Music Sector unveiled last year. Participants in attendance were informed of the projected interventions listed so far – besides possible solutions for everyday odds staked out against most musicians across African countries. EQUALITY Margaret Daniel, a Mombasa-based gospel singer who attended the event notes: “It was agreed that member associations have a responsibility to advocate equal treatment between female and male musicians. The approach primarily ensures recognition and protection of individual work irrespective of gender differences.” This equality principle has been at the forefront of multipronged campaigns driven by the international musicians’ union movement, and is also considered one of the basic characteristics of human rights. The Dar Declaration states that conditions under which music professionals’ rights should be exercised, are not limited but inclusive of having equal access to basic education, musical instruments and training facilities. Individual free choice to undertake and pursue a career in the music sector ought to be safeguarded. Also pertinent is a pressing need to change mind-sets with regard to the too often, lopsided association of female performing artists and loose morals. Such attitudes and perceptions have spawned inferior casting, resulting in erroneous influence, bias and skewed stereotypes that severely affect more women artistes than men. A call for zero tolerance was made as a measure to curb all forms of sexual harassment or violence, whether physical, psychological or moral, which are still rampant against female musicians. Also, across-the-board respect of ‘equal work for equal salary’ principle ought to be taken into account in the sector. “It is essential that all workers in the sector be adequately represented and empowered, including those who are in the most vulnerable positions,” asserts Dayan. Notably, the Dar Declaration also advocates raising awareness on gender-based orientation in the profession as a basis to flag undervaluation of the jobs more generally ‘cut out for women’.