By Irene Githinji @gitshee President Uhuru Kenyatta has urged Kenyans to remain vigilant during the Easter holiday and be their “brother’s and sister’s keepers”. In his Easter message of goodwill, Uhuru said during the long weekend, Kenyans should be safe and remain secure. He urged those travelling to different parts of the country to observe road safety precautions at all times. “I am glad to send you this message of greetings and goodwill, wishing you all happy and blessed Easter festivities. May this Easter bring all of us joy, peace and fulfillment,” the President said in a statement. “Easter is a time for reflection on our relationship with God, especially for us Christians. As we rejoice and celebrate in remembrance of the death and resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ, let us also remember the less fortunate amongst us by showing compassion to the needy,” he added. He assured the government is working to mitigate the drought situation and it recognises the difficulties being faced by Kenyans in various parts of the country. Deputy President William Ruto also urged Kenyans to exercise caution on the road. “As we remember and celebrate Christ’s persecution, death, resurrection and ascension, we reflect on God’s redeeming love and blessings. Through prayer, forgiveness and unity, we invite God’s favour in our country,” Ruto said on his Twitter account. Catholics across the country joined the rest of world in marking Good Friday. In Nairobi, Head of the Catholic church in Kenya John Cardinal Njue led the way of the cross, usually marked in commemoration of the crucifixion and death of Jesus. A spot check in Nairobi showed that most businesses remained open, with traders attributing the situation to hard economic times. At major bus stations, long queues were witnessed as hundreds of passengers traveling to various destinations for the Easter holidays waited for Public Service Vehicles (PSVs), that were in high demand. Bus fares were hiked, especially by those plying long distance routes,  which left most travellers stranded.