Barry Silah Sixteen county associations including Kenya Police and Busia have passed a resolution to hold the long-awaited Boxing Association of Kenya (BAK) elections at Kasarani”s Moi International Sports Centre on May 28. This follows a November 6 2018 Sports Dispute Tribunal (SDT) ruling which declared all meetings held after the expiry of the association’s May 2017 mandate null and void. The ruling also dismissed the earlier planned November 2018 polls and ordered BAK to hold its elections within 60 days. The counties, which were represented at the Serena Council, were Nairobi, Nakuru, Siaya, Busia, Kenya Police, Kwale, Kilifi, Vihiga, Kakamega, Muranga, Laikipia, Meru, Mombasa, Trans Nzoia, Kisumu and Kiambu. Skipping the Council without apology were Kenya Defence Forces (KDF), Kenya Prisons and Nyeri. The polls date was proposed by Nairobi secretary Musa Benjamin and seconded by Kisumu secretary Anthony Ombok ‘Jamal’. BAK interim secretary Isaac Mbote s addressing the press after the council, Mbote said the council was convened in accordance with the SDT ruling. “Following the ruling of the SDT on November 6, the court ordered that BAK Executive calls an SGM to plan for the election. Its in the implementation of that court order that BAK EXCO called the meeting,” said Mbote. Mbote added that IEBC will precide over the election which will be held onMay 28. Kameta who termeded the move to call elections as inconsequential.  “Those are impostors and the said assos will be conducted in three months after we have an amended constitution,” said Kameta.Council has members as per BAK constitution.  “A legal body can only be formed in accordance with the constitution of Kenya. ‘Waiganjos’ can have their free day for political expediency and benefits accruing from the war economy.  There must be rule of law. Court is seized with the matter hence those involved risk contempt proceedings. George Onyango (Foreman) and myself are to drive the process. The rest are strangers. There must be rule of law,” Kameta said. Mung’ori was appointed BAK secretary general during a previous BAK Council meeting that was convened on August 24, last year at Kaloleni Social Hall. Mung’ori replaced Isaac Mbote, who had been suspended back in 2016 for missing executive committee meetings, but the appointment has since been dismissed by the Tribunal. BAK Council met again on September 26, last year to set November 16 as the date  elections which also dismissed. Sports Dispute Tribunal ordered BAK to convene for a Special General Meeting (SGM) immediately to plan for the elections that must be held within 60 days from November 6, this year. Registrar Rose Wasike moved to reinstate Mbote throwing both the administration at BAK and the National League into disarray. 