Wazito reinforced their National Super League title ambitions in style following their 4-2 demolition of visiting Coast Stima at Camp Toyoyo Friday. A first half brace by Joseph Waithira and a goal apiece by Musa Masika and Paul Acquah was enough to silence the 10th placed visitors as Wazito temporarily scaled the league standings to top on 60 points. All goals came in a frenetic first half with Ghanaian import punishing poor Stima defending to latch onto an Amos Asembeka cross with a powerful drive past opposing goalkeeper Said Dhadho inside five minutes. The floodgates then opened with speedy winger Waithira scoring his brace in the space of two minutes with the last quarter of the half approaching. Stima rallied to get an equaliser in the 23rd minute following Khamis Abudu’s strike off the 18-yard area. Waithira earned his first in the 28th minute was a good run from the left and after leaving his challengers for dead, he squared the ball far post while his second came against the run of play in the half hour mark after intercepting a wayward Paul Ndara pass and powering home with his right foot. New recruit Musa Masika formerly of Kangemi Allstars put in the fourth for Wazito in the 43rd minute after skipping through a maze of legs and planting the ball into the top roof to send the fervent supporters into ruptures. The overall display of Stima backline was a serious letdown as they failed to shut down the spaces and were duly punished. Their usual lethal striker Abbas Muhiddin was well covered by Lloyd Wahome as he endured a frustrating afternoon. Meanwhile this afternoon sees promotion chasers Ushuru and Nairobi Stima lock horns in what is anticipated to be a cracking fixture. The match that will be played at Camp Toyoyo will see each side try to get rid of their recent drawbacks as they fight for promotion slots. The corresponding fixture ended in a 1-0 defeat to the taxmen and Coach Ken Kenyatta will be plotting revenge against the team with the current meanest defence in the championship. WEEKEND FIXTURES; 11am-Kibera Black Stars vs Modern Coast Rangers (Camp Toyoyo) 1pm-Fortune Sacco vs Kangemi Allstars (Thika Stadium) 2pm-Ushuru vs Nairobi Stima (Camp Toyoyo) 3pm-Green Commandos vs Nairobi City Stars (Bukhungu Stadium) 3pm-Migori Youth vs Kenya Police (Awendo Green Stadium) 3pm-Thika United vs St.Joseph’s Youth 3pm-Eldoret Youth vs Bidco United (Eldoret Show Grounds)