Nailantei Norari Everyone knows that dinner, or any meal for that matter is only an existential proposition unless and until you have a glass of something alcoholic first. Yes, waiting till after meals to have drinks is so outmoded. You should definitely have a tipple before, during and after meals. Drinking before meals, especially dinner is so en vogue that predinner drinks have a name; they are called aperitifs or in French, l’apero. Aperitifs are supposed to stimulate the appetite and are therefore not creamy or sweet. Sweet drinks are kept till after dinner as sugar can mess with your appetite. This is why dry wine is normally an apero but not sweet wine. The pre-meal drink should also have low alcohol content and be taken in moderation. There is no need to have a completely sloshed companion at dinner who can barely hold a fork or even see the food for that matter. Try to remember that the main aim of an aperitif is not to get completely sloshed such that you are unable to enjoy the meal ahead. Most aperitifs have a herbaceous taste with vermouth being the most known aperitif. Champagne, dry wine, dry sherry and soft martini cocktails (most martinis are made with vermouth), Campari, Pimm’s and Pernod are used as aperitifs the world over. Aperitifs are normally taken as people socialise and get to know each other before dinner. During dinner, one can choose to take their drink of choice so long as they keep the drinking to a few sips. Eating should take centre stage, with the diner taking care to enjoy all the flavors in their food without adulterating it with alcohol. After dinner now comes the fun part, the climax to a well paced dining and drinking experience. Let me hear an ‘aye, aye’, from all those who like spirits with 70 per cent alcohol. After meal drinks, normally referred to as digestifs, are supposed to aid with digestion. This is when the diner can go all out as digestifs have higher alcohol content compared to aperitifs. Brandys, gins and whiskys can be served as digestifs. They can be served either neat or with a chaser. They can also be rich in taste and sweet, even serve as dessert. Dessert liquers such as Baileys and Amarula can serve the double role of being both dessert and digestif. Though digestifs are taken after meals and mostly after dinner, they should not be confused with nightcaps. A nightcap is a drink that is normally taken shortly before sleep to aid in sleeping. A nightcap should not be one more of whatever you have been taking as your digestif. It should be just one, of something different that will aid with your sleep. This does not mean that you should simply order something so different that you end up either throwing up immediately or having the mother of all hangovers the following morning. Try and order something close to what you have been having as your digestif. If you have been taking wine for instance, order a cognac, they tend to have the same fruity notes. But whatever you do, do not order a chilled nightcap. You need something warm, like bourbon or whiskey; something that will lull you to sleep preferably after just one shot of it. Just ensure that you indulge responsibly. But, if you decide to extrapolate your drinking before, during and after meals to other times of your day, we have a crystal ball. You will definitely lose your job. Especially if you do it during weekdays. But, if you do not have a job, worry not. You definitely will not be able to afford to support this habit for long. Happy drinking and dining!