Ugandan George Abege scored in the 93rd minute to earn 10-man Kariobangi Sharks a share of the spoils against AFC Leopards at Kasarani Stadium yesterday. Leopards were on course to make their biggest statement yet in their resurgence under Rwandan tactician Andre Casa Mbungo as they turned on the style from the onset with a sleek finish from Whyvonne Isuza only for Abege to happen in the final minute of added time. The compact Sharks presented the most formidable opposition for Ingwe in recent fixtures. Their meeting thereby offered an epic spectacle and other than three ugly incidents of skirmishes, the duel lived up to its billing with a goal in the opening minute and another in the final. Marauding Leopards spared no time as they drew first blood 20 seconds into the game. New signing David Ochieng, deployed in midfield by a tactically astute Mbungo, found winger Paul Were on the left. Inch-perfect cross The Kenyan international dazed his minders with blistering pace before delivering an inch-perfect cross to the far post where a lurking Isuza finished with precision. Possibly bogged down by the weight of expectations having failed to win in their last eight matches, Sharks were disoriented by the early goal. Their hasty display was either thwarted by solid defending or petty mistakes. Leopards on the other hand enjoyed their game and looked dangerous on the wings where Were and Brian Marita cruised with Vincent Oburu offering a potent threat in the centre. Sharks consolidated and finished the first half strongly. They probed in the second without much success and were disadvantaged in the 64th minute when substitute Ian Taifa, who had come on for injured Patila Omoto, was sent off for a dangerous tackle. Sharks stayed positive and struck at the death as Abege leapt highest to head Geoffrey Shiveka’s free kick to break Ingwe’s hearts. In Nakuru, Enosh Ochieng scored the sole goal as Ulinzi Stars beat Vihiga United to move to seventh on the table. The soldiers are on a remarkable revival since title-winning coach Benjamin Nyangweso returned at the helm. Nzoia Sugar and Western Stima played to a barren draw at Sudi Stadium as Chemelil Scored in the 90th minute to beat KCB 2-1 in Machakos. KCB raced into an early lead as they found the back of the net just 19 minutes after kick-off. The sugar millers then responded with a leveler 10 minutes later before stealing the victory at the death.