Wellness and fitness are the new catchwords in the country as attested to by the proliferation of health clubs, gyms and wellness boot camps. People are becoming more conscious of their physical as well as mental wellness and taking steps to ensure that they remain healthy. Some have crafted an ingenious plan to marry tourism with wellness by arranging for fitness boot camps in tourist hot spots. Marathons are a great way to work out, test one’s endurance as well as see a foreign city. There are people who train for the Berlin marathon annually and plan short holidays around the event. While most people have been doing these for quite some time, I was recently introduced to it. My first event was the Kilimanjaro marathon, which was held in Moshi, Tanzania. The scenic view of Mount Kilimanjaro was worth the venture. Despite the event being held in Tanzania, more Kenyans participated in the race than those from the host country with most hotels fully booked for a week. Most people arranged for activities to engage in around Moshi after the marathon, with the night-clubs and restaurants recording high profits from the influx of patrons. I was glad to sample the Moshi nightlife, though one should probably order food well before they feel hungry as it takes quite a while. Their chilled Kilimanjaro lager is a must try as it hits just the right spot. The annual Kaptagat Forest marathon has had the same effect on tourism in Eldoret town. I got to jog in the marathon both in 2017 and this year and saw nothing more than dust because, competing against our expert runners means that you come in last with a resounding defeat. But jokes aside, I also got to visit Sirikwa caves, walk along Elagerini River and tour the eponymous Kaptagat forest as well. Before you think that marathons are the only form of wellness tourism, there are dance camps as well as yoga retreats that are arranged in the Mara or at the Coast or at any tourist spot that the organisers deem as suitable and interesting. The Lamu Yoga Festival, for instance, is a five-day festival that sees yogis from all over the world travelling to Lamu to practice yoga and experience the hospitality of the quaint little Lamu town and the white sandy beaches. If one is committed and their pockets are deep enough, they can even go to a wellness retreat in India for a whole month, where you can practice meditation, yoga while enjoying a wholesome diet of fruits, veggies and freshly squeezed juices. A wellness retreat can also be a simple weekend stay at a wellness centre. There are centres that have experts who range from nutritionists, psychologists, and physical therapists to masseuses. In Africa, South Africa is best known for such outfits with most executives even negotiating for fully paid annual wellness packages in their employee benefits. Closer home, Entim Sidai has wellness services that range from a day off with lunch and dinner at the centre to booking a stay at the cottages while you indulge in nature walks in the nearby forest plus a spot of yoga or massages. Instead of rushing off for the normal holidays, it is worth considering booking a wellness retreat. You will come back not just well rested but with better mental acuity and physical shape to be more productive for the rest of the year.