D.light Solar has opened a regional office and service center in Eldoret as part of the company’s expansion strategy to reach and impact 100million lives globally by 2020. Speaking during the opening of the new office and service center, Michael Walekwa, Managing Director, d.light Kenya and Horn of Africa reaffirmed the company’s commitment to impact local communities through the provision of alternative, environmentally friendly source of power. “The opening of this office and service centre not only allows us the opportunity to serve the residents of Uasin Gishu County and the Rift Valley region, it also gives us a chance to touch the lives of our customers in a way that matters most to them through our home solar systems. As d.light solar we want to empower the people in the communities we operate in to live sustainably,” said Walekwa. Located at KIPPS Plaza, Iten road, the office and service center will open daily including weekends and public holidays. The center will offer sales services and after sales services for d.light’s products including solar home systems and portable solar powered lanterns. ‘’Our solar home systems have been received very well in Rift Valley region and we can see an ever-expanding market for our products hence the need to open a service centre to serve the community here’’ noted Mr. Walekwa. ‘’We have also managed to create jobs directly and indirectly through an ever expanding number of agents in the region who have switched to d.light as their only source of income,’’ Mr. Walekwa added. d.light provides affordable, high quality off-grid solar systems to people living without access to reliable and clean energy. Since its establishment in 2007, d.light has evolved from a single lantern product and now offers Solar Home Systems (SHS) which it has installed in thousands of rural homes across Kenya. With the establishment of the regional office, d.light expects to grow its market share and create more employment opportunities for the locals through its sales model. Also attending the event, Jackson Mandago, Governor, Uasin Gishu County applauded d.light solar for championing renewable solar energy and creating job opportunities for the youth in the county and leveraging on innovation and technology to uplift the community by creating jobs and lighting the off grid areas in Kenya. He also encouraged the public to fight counterfeit solar products and only promote genuine. “I want to commend the work d.light is doing in the renewable energy sector that will go a long way in supporting the realization of the government’s Big Four Agenda and Sustainable Development Goals. With access to clean, affordable and reliable energy, power costs in households and cost of doing business will reduce significantly,” said Mandago. “As d.light solar, our mission is to create a brighter future for everyone by making clean energy products universally available and affordable guided by Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the national development policies such as Kenya’s Vision 2030 and the Big Four Agenda,” reiterated Jacob Okoth, Managing Director, d.light Africa . In the last 10 years, d.light has been able to reach communities, households and children with affordable and clean power across over 60 countries.