What do you remember about your first meet? Catherine: We met through a mutual friend in Elegeyo Marakwet county in 2014, at a function the company he works for was sponsoring. I had been invited as a guest; random plans. Who said “Hi” first, and how did it develop into a relationship? I saw a friend at the event, who was his colleague. They greeted me together, then, since it was a long distance back home, George offered me a lift back to Eldoret town. That’s when he asked for my number. Our first date was Churchill Show, which was just a week after we met. We became friends and dated for a while before he proposed. We had our traditional marriage ceremony (koito) on December 10, 2016. What do you remember about the proposal? It was simple and I loved it, he took me to a place called Naiberi River Campsite for lunch, where he popped the question. Funny thing is, he didn’t have a ring. He bought it later when we were together at an Egyptian expo. What happens during the koito? It happens at the bride’s home, where dowry negotiations take place, and after both families come to an agreement, the elders have mursik and a celebration is held. We had 700 people attend ours. It was beautiful. How did you settle on the location for your wedding? Our families come from Baringo and Uasin Gishu counties, so we settled on Eldoret as it is central. Plus, we both work in Eldoret, and this made it easier to coordinate. Did you use a committee or wedding planner? We planned the whole wedding ourselves and it took us five months. It was easy since we focused on family and friends, knew what we wanted, had our budget and got the best suppliers. What are some of the challenges you faced? Limiting our guest invitation list was a huge challenge, since we come from big families and we have a lot of friends. How was their reaction when they learnt that you were having an invite-only wedding? We had 250 guests. I still don’t know how everyone embraced it, but I know of some who were angry that they weren’t invited. However, those who got a chance to come were so happy and we had a good time. How did you handle their disappointment? We just explained why we had a small number of guests, which some understood. What was memorable about your wedding? I loved my suppliers and their work was amazing. I totally appreciate all their efforts in making the big day a success. Also, our bridal team was the best ever. We had so much fun. Everything just fell into place – it was a hustle-free, stress-free wedding – exceptional, I couldn’t believe it. If I could do it again, I would. What can you advise couples on choosing a photographer? Our photographer was Willy Muturi, whose work I came across on Facebook, and fell in love with his dedication to stories and how he delivers 100 per cent. I would advise people to select a photographer who creates stories through photos because after the wedding, all we have are photos and videos that last a lifetime for remembrance. Your last word? Couples should draft a budget and stick to it, save up for the wedding and not take any loans. Also, don’t depend on people so much. The Internet is there to guide. Select reputable suppliers and don’t bargain or follow up so much. Let them do their job. Work with timelines and make payments early. Lastly, have fun. So much fun! BRIDE: CATHERINE CHERONO GROOM: GEORGE CHESIRE VENUE:  BOMA INN ELDORET DATE: FEBRUARY 23, 2019 MAKE-UP: HAMISA CAKE: MABLESH BAKERS MC: KIPTABUT