Nairobi, Wednesday @PeopleSport11 Former Harambee Stars defender George ‘Wise’ Owino has been slapped with a 10-year ban by the world football governing body FIFA for match fixing and slapped with a Sh1.5 million fine. Owino, who has been out of active football since the case was first notified to the Football Kenya Federation and his former club Mathare United has been banned from taking part in any football-related activity at both national and international level (administrative, sports or any other) for a period of 10 years. The ruling was delivered Tuesday by the FIFA Disciplinary Committee which also dished out life bans to eight others, including former Sierra Leone skipper Ibrahim Kargbo. The nine were found guilty of having been involved in match manipulation in violation of article 69 par 1 of the FIFA Disciplinary Code (unlawfully influencing match results). The formal disciplinary proceedings into the individuals stemmed from an extensive investigation into various international matches that one Wilson Raj Perumal, a convicted international match fixer, attempted to manipulate for betting purposes. This large-scale investigation was conducted by FIFA over several years through its Integrity Department and in cooperation with the relevant stakeholders and authorities. Owino was accused by the world governing body of playing an integral role in fixing several national team games with Perumal and his former club Mathare  and the federation were notified of the charge last year. According to the FIFA report released in September 2018, Owino, through Perumal, conspired to manipulate and influence the result of international matches involving Kenya and was also used to try and recruit other players to aid in the ploy. FIFA’s probe put in a detailed report that pointed out 14 matches in which Owino was actively involved in including a World Cup qualification match pitting Kenya against Nigeria which the latter won 3-2 at Kasarani to sail to the 2010 World Cup. Also under the radar was the qualifier between Kenya and Tunisia for the same World Cup in 2010.  -CAPITAL