PD Team @PeopleDailyKe The low-intensity Jubilee Party civil war could explode into open hostilities in Parliament when MPs resume sittings today following a two-week recess. Ironically, the protagonists are allies of the two party leaders— President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto— whose once warm ties under Jubilee’s Tuko Pamoja banner seems to have been jolted by the March 9, 2018 Handshake between Uhuru and Opposition leader Raila Odinga. The anticipated face-off in the House comes against the background of alleged harassment of the pro-Ruto allies, the Tanga Tanga Team, which has been drumming up support for the DP’s 2022 State House bid. They are angry over alleged withdrawal of security for seven leading lights, including a governor’s. Interior ministry officials and police insist the security was replaced, not withdrawn, but the affected politicians are not buying the explanation. Security detail And even as they plan to stage  a fightback in Parliament, sources indicate that 19 more MPs from the team could lose their security while others serving on House committees could be replaced. Interviews with several MPs revealed that 174 legislators have been holding meetings and strategising on how to “teach” the Executive a lesson for allegedly mistreating them and failing to address their welfare issues. An MP who sought anonymity told People Daily the plans could only be shelved if Uhuru convenes an urgent Parliamentary Group meeting to forestall a damaging fallout in the party. In particular, MPs whose security detail was allegedly withdrawn are demanding unconditional reinstatement failure to which a major showdown will be staged that could affect business in the House. It is understood that Ruto’s allies could be planing to disrupt the three-day debate on the President’s State of the Nation address and instead seek to discuss what they term as matters of national interest. The MPs, who protest alleged short-changing of the DP following the Uhuru-Raila Handshake told People Daily they will move an adjournment motion to deliberate the withdrawal of the security detail of at lea MPs. True colours According to the MPs, the deliberations on this matter will be to ensure that the security of members will become a policy domiciled under the Parliamentary Service Commission. “We are going to do everything possible to ensure that we are heard. We cannot continue to be frustrated this way. Wait and until we resume tomorrow (today) you will see our true colours,” an MP told People Daily. Apart from security issues, another group of MPs wants to vent their anger on the Budget making process that will see key ministries lose crucial amounts of money and re-assigned to issues like mitigation of drought. While they were clear whether they will support the government business in the House, the lawmakers led by Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa, said they will be seeking to reduce the financial vote of Interior ministry particularly the “confidential budget” that he charges spends billions of unexplained expenditure. Rubber stamps “When the budget comes, we will do what is important and we will not accept to be used as rubber stamps,” he said. On the opposing side, there are claims of targeting some House Committee members for replacement them with friendlier members. Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung’wa, who chairs the powerful Budget and Appropriations Committee could face the axe with sources indicating that he could be replaced with Kitui Central MP Makali Mulu of Nasa. But House Majority Whip Benjamin Washiali dismissed such a move, maintaining that he has not been instructed by his bosses to make such changes. On the divisions in the House, Washiali said, while they need a retreat to address some of the issues bedeviling the party, there is no way they could gag members from tabling issues affecting them. “If they want an adjournment motion to address security of members, they only need 30 members to do that. We are not going to stop any member from raising any matter on the floor of the House,” he said. And speaking separately, six MPs from Mt Kenya region allied to Ruto demanded that a Jubilee Parliamentary Group meeting be called to discuss the Ruto campaign issue. Speaking in two functions this week in Nyeri, four MPs led by Nyeri Woman Rep Rahab Mukami and Mukurweini MP Antony Kiai said it was high time Uhuru convened the PG so that they can know whether they are making a mistake by supporting Ruto. The legislators, who were attending Presbyterian Women Sacco AGM in Nyeri Town, accused their counterparts in Team Kieleweke of hypocrisy. And Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga, while speaking in Isiolo, said Nyeri people and Mt Kenya residents support Ruto’s bid to succeed Uhuru.