Colombo, Wednesday The toll in a series of suicide bomb blasts on Easter Sunday targeting hotels and churches in Sri Lanka has risen to 359, police said Wednesday. The additional deaths were the result of the wounded dying of their injuries. At least 500 people were injured in the attacks. The figures were released as it emerged one of the attackers studied in the UK. Sri Lanka deputy defence minister said the bomber studied in the UK before doing a postgraduate course in Australia. UK authorities have been given his name and are investigating who he met prior to the attacks. The blasts have been claimed by the Islamic State group, with Sri Lanka’s government pointing the finger at the little-known local Islamist group National Thowheeth Jama’ath, but saying the group likely had “international” help. “Certainly the security apparatus is of the view that there are foreign links and some of the evidence points to that,” Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe told media on Tuesday night. “We’ve been following up on this claim, there were suspicions that there were links with ISIS,” he added, using another name for IS. Sri Lankan police have identified eight out of nine attackers, one of whom was a woman, with no foreigners among them. Most of the attackers were “well educated” and “middle class”. Worst violence Overnight, Sri Lankan police carried out fresh raids, detained 18 more people in their hunt for those involved in the attacks. Nearly 60 people have been detained since the Sunday blasts, which ripped through high-end hotels and churches packed with Easter worshippers in the capital Colombo and beyond. It is the worst violence in the country since the end of a Tamil insurgency a decade ago. Meanwhile, the US ambassador to Sri Lanka has denied the United States had prior knowledge of the Easter attacks that it passed to the Colombo government. “We had no prior knowledge of these attacks,” ambassador Alaina Teplitz told CNN in an interview. A Sri Lankan minister had said earlier this week that India and the United States had provided information before the bombings on three churches and three hotels which authorities have blamed on a local Islamist group. “Well I can’t speak for others… I can just tell you we had no prior knowledge,” the envoy insisted. -AFP