Martin Mwita @MwitaMartin The local banking sector is set to witness more acquisitions as larger lenders seek to buy their capital-constrained third tier counterparts in the wake of increased competition in the capped market. KCB Group last Thursday announced its intention to acquire a 100 per cent stake in the National Bank of Kenya (NBK) after a merger deal by NIC Group and Commercial Bank of Africa (CBA) was first  announced on December 6, 2018. This brings to about 13 banking merger and acquisition deals in the last six years, six of which were announced between August last year and this year. It confirms industry players’ predictions, including the regulator-Central Bank of Kenya (CBK), which has previously predicted consolidations. In its weekly market analysis released over the weekend, investment firm Cytonn said the move by KCB is an indication more deals are in the pipeline. “The transaction is in line with our expectation of increased consolidation in the banking sector, as players with depleted capital positions become acquired by their larger counterparts or merge together to form well -capitalised entities,” it said. Cytonn said the new entities are expected to be capable of navigating the relatively tough operating environment induced by price controls on lending rates and exacerbated by stiff competition. The trend is seen to strengthen banks in the wake of a tough business environment occasioned by among others; deterioration in asset quality, strict reporting under the IFRS 9, accounting standard that has instituted a number of changes to treatment of financial instruments, and capping of interest rate which has eaten into lenders’ loan books profits. Chase and Imperial banks were placed under receivership back to back on “unsound” banking practices. The move saw KCB  Group chief executive Joshua Oigara say the number of banks operating in the country needed to shrink by about half due to the  “crisis of confidence”. Major deals He said that Kenya needs only 20 banks, not 42 commercial banks as is the case currently. Apart from the ongoing KCB-NBK and CBA-NIC deals, other recent major deals (both under way and concluded)  include acquisition of Jamii Bora by CBA Group in a transaction valued at Sh1.4 billion in a deal made public in January. The same month, AfricInvest Azure made a move on Prime Bank seeking a 24.2 per cent stake at Sh5.1 billion. In December, KCB moved to acquire under receivership Imperial Bank while SBM Bank moved to secure 75 per cent of Chase Bank. Others were Diamond Trust Bank’s move on Habib Bank where is took 100 per cent control in a Sh1.8 billion deal, SBM Holding acquisition of Fidelity Commercial bank, M Bank-Oriental Commercial Bank, I&M-Giro Bank,Mwalimu Sacco-Equitorial Commercial Bank, Centum-K Rep and GT Bank acquisition of Fina Bank. National Treasury has been seeking to strengthen the banking sector through increased capitalisation requirements where it had proposed Sh5 billion up from Sh1 billion. The move was, however, rejected by CBK and Parliament on grounds that the policy would kill competition in the industry and lock out new entrants. Instead, the banking sector regulator proposed natural consolidation.