What does your job entail? I’m a student pursuing Electrical and Telecommunications Engineering at Multi Media University. Which is your latest gadget? My Acer laptop; Aspire e5-471. It has an Intel Core i3 1.9GHz processor, 4GB of RAM and 500GB storage. Which are your most vital apps on the phone? A music app called Musixmatch, Microsoft Launcher which helps me link my phone to my pc, Spark Post, Xender and VidMate. What do you love about technology? The thing that I love most about technology is that “everything is possible.” We are only limited by our imagination when it comes to new technologies and how to make them work for us. Which are the best websites to use in your line of work? Tutorialspoint.com (an Indian website with great tutorials especially relating to my field of study), MALAB, torrent sites and various networking sites like Huawei and Cisco. Which is the gadget you wouldn’t trade for anything? My drone; SKYHUNTER. I love it. Your worst gadget ever and why? My Samsung Galaxy S4. It was an amazing phone back then when it was new till it began lagging. I tried to factory reset it to see if it would help and to date, it’s still at the boot-up process. Which is your most expensive gadget and how much did it cost? My laptop; an Acer Aspire e5-471. Bought it for Sh40,000 (5 years ago). Which gadget do you use the most and why? My phone. The evolution of the phone makes life great since you can do almost everything with just the gadget in your hands. What would you be if you were a gadget? That’s a nice question. I think I’d be a Samsung Fold. Just something out of the norm. The gadget you can’t live without and why? I think a phone. That’s where I do most of the things like networking, browsing and not forgetting doing money transactions, etc. If you had to choose between iOS and windows, which one would it be and why? Windows anytime. The simplicity yet its capability of being a versatile OS impresses me a lot. And I love its new feature; Windows Hello. If you were to upgrade one of your most valued gadgets, what would you opt for and why? I would opt to upgrade my phone to Huawei Mate 20 pro 6GB RAM + 128GB ROM. I just love it. While shopping for gadgets, do you look for, brand or output? Output definitely. The gadget you always wish you had? The New surface Book 2. 8th Generation Intel Core i7-8650U quad-core processor, 4.2GHz Max Turbo. It has up to 16GB RAM, Solid State Drive (SSD) of 1TB storage and NVIDIA GeForce dGPU graphics. God help me.