Harambee Stars will play two friendly build-up matches against Madagascar and Cote d’Ivoire during their three-week camp in Paris, France as part of their preparation for this year’s Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) in Egypt in June. The team, initially scheduled to fly out on May 23 will now leave the country on May 31 and stay in the French capital until June 18, just four days before they play their opening match the continental event against Algeria. While in France, Stars will play Madagascar on June 7 before facing Cote d’Ivoire in June  15, however, Football Kenya Federation (FKF) is still waiting for confirmation from the Cote d’Ivoire Football Association for their availability. “We organized this preparation with the aid of the technical bench led by coach Sebastian Migne. Kenyan players will for the first time experience a camp like none before. The camp has been paid for and it is a very good place with all facilities and the necessary privacy,” FKF president Nick Mwendwa disclosed. “Everybody is working hard and we have the money to settle players wages in order to avoid the previous tradition of players go -slow. The squad has 35 players who will each get Sh250,000 before leaving for the camp in France. The players who will be selected to go for Afcon will be paid Sh750,000 before we leave for Egypt. We just want them to focus and do us proud,” said Mwendwa. Mwendwa said he wanted Stars to play teams that had previously met with their group opponents and who will also be camping in France. Kenya is pooled alongside Tanzania, Senegal and Algeria in Group C where pundits have tipped Senegal and Algeria as sides to earn qualification. A tactically astute Kenya has, however, made big strides since Migne took charge of the team and underlined that progress by trouncing a star-studded Ghana at home then losing narrowly by a freak goal in Accra during the return leg. Migne equally navigated a tough away fixture against Ethiopia, coming out unscathed after a scoreless draw. The coach has kept his cards too close to his chest leaving Kenyan players eyeing slots in the Egypt bound plane falling over themselves trying to impress. Three names guaranteed a place in the flight are skipper Victor Wanyama who has rediscovered his form after struggling with injury recently. The England-based midfielder has no peers in his position and will lead the country’s charge in its fifth appearance at the tournament. Japan based striker Michael Olunga has also earned his place in the team having established himself as Kenya’s most prolific goal poacher at the moment. Olunga is Migne’s first option upfront and the French tactician will structure the team around him. A number of support strikers are working hard to catch manager’s eye and at whose  discretion to pick the also rans. Jesse Were of Zambia’s Zesco United has scored important goals for his club but remains goalless at national level in over fifteen matches. His inspiring club form failed to convince Migne to pick him for the Ghana tie in Accra.                                — JAMES MAGAYI