Why did you settle for a Friday? Nyambura: It’s out of the ordinary and we like being a little unconventional. We were also thinking about the attendees. A Friday wedding allows them to enjoy themselves and have the Saturday to rest. How about your choice of a garden wedding? We decided to go for a garden wedding because we like how beautiful they are, and we could decorate it however we wanted. When we found Enkishon, we knew right away it would be the venue. What was the proposal like? Well, we had dated for about a year before he popped the question, which was enough for us to decide to settle together. The proposal was an intimate one with a few friends at Nook Café. It’s a small unique restaurant that we like, so he decided to do it there. What was the planning process like? It took us about six months to plan the wedding, and we mostly did it together. We had a Google Drive with everything we needed, and we both worked off that to make sure we had everything covered. We also had a small group of close friends who helped with the coordinating. How did you settle on the number of guests and bridal team? We wanted a small bridal team, so we went for some of our closest friends and family. The number of guests was dictated by our closest friends and family as well. We had a list written down and decided to keep it at 400 guests, though we had about 500 people at the wedding. I think the venue influenced the numbers, as well as the invitation cards. You had interesting details in your bridal party outfits. Tell us about the theme of your big day: We went for a navy and gold theme. We were inclined towards muted colours. Neither of us likes anything too bright. What inspired your unique choice of rides? We both like vintage cars, which explains why we had the VW Kombis. We also happened to know people who own them, so that was easy. At the same time, we appreciate a little bit of a modern touch, which is what inspired the two Mercedes S Classes for the bridesmaids. Why would you say your wedding was successful? Everyone danced and had so much fun. When we meet guests who were at the wedding, they tell us they really enjoyed themselves and that was important for us. What stood out in your wedding? The dancing. It was one joyful celebration that took about three days for our muscles to at least start healing. It was lovely to see all our friends from different life phases come out to celebrate with us. What was most memorable about your big day? The vows. I loved that we wrote our own vows, so we got to say exactly what we meant to each other. John: Reading our personalised vows to each other. That right there was the crowning moment for me. Bride: Nyambura Muthee Groom: John Njoroge ( DJ Johni Celeb) Date: March 8, 2019 Venue: Enkishon Gardens Photography: Namuks Photography MC: Paul Asika, MC Abel Rings: Kennedys International Vintage cars: David Kings and @aryathekombi