Marcella Akinyi Origami is a new concept that’s picking up in weddings. What is it all about? It’s a skill that came from Japan, which means folding paper into decorative shapes and figures. Currently, since it has been adopted in many countries, the word just means folding, regardless of where you come from. What inspired you to love paper art? My inspiration came from my love for unique handcrafted things and my love for DIY (do it yourself) when I started doing wedding décor in 2015. I wanted to bring something different to the market, and paper décor was it. How did you learn how to do it? Through YouTube and a lot of practice. So what’s the process? How long does it take to make a piece? The process starts by purchasing the paper, then cutting out templates of the kind of flower you are making, followed by tracing the templates on the paper and cutting the pieces you want in different sizes, then you fold the cut pieces into your desired shape, and finally glue them together. Compared to the past, how popular has paper art become in the wedding industry in terms of décor? Presently, it has become very popular. In the past, this seemed like a cheaper way to do it, but now, it has gained popularity and more clients desire to incorporated them into their décor. How different is it from ordinary décor and what are the advantages of using the pieces? One is able to create any flower the client wants, even if the flower is not in season. In addition, one can make flowers of any size, so, you are not limited. Is it expensive? Yes, especially quality paper and labour. How much would it cost a couple to incorporate it in their wedding? Packages start from Sh10,000 for backdrops and Sh5,000 for a few pieces of different sizes. What kind of material is used and what types of flowers are created by it? The type of materials used are mostly embossed and glitter paper, which make the large flowers that are used as backdrops. The lighter papers such as luminous paper are best for origami. What should a couple look for when choosing an origami artist for their wedding décor? One should look at the quality of work the paper artist has produced. The artist should have good workmanship and should be creative. When you are not making paper flowers, what else do you do? That’s all I do. I make new things and practice my skill. What are some of the challenges you face? One of the biggest challenges is payment. People want to pay little for more. They haven’t appreciated the job we do. Also, a lot of working materials are not available in the Kenyan market, and the ones that are there are too expensive. Parting shot? We are all gifted in different ways and we all have a part to play in this world. Let’s diligently work on those gifts and the good Lord will bless the work of our hands. Also, our gifts will qualify us to sit with kings. 