The Great Rift 10-a-side rugby defending champions Menengai Cream Homeboyz has named a youthful side to be skippered by Brian Songoi as they plan to retain the title this weekend in Nakuru. The reigning champions have been grouped in Pool A together with Nondescripts, Impala and JKUAT Cougars. The Deejayz squad named on Friday by coach Simon Odongo features mainly young blood including Elijah Nganga and Brian Ayimba as well as Kenya under 20 lock Emmanuel Silungi. Action is expected to start at 10am at the Nakuru Athletic Club, however, women’s rugby and age grade rugby that kicked off on Friday. Friday was highlighted by the ladies six-team division one rivalry, where Pool A brought together Impala, Northern Suburbs and Mwamba while hosts Top Fry Nakuru were in pool B together with Homeboyz and Shamas rugby foundation. The weekend according to the organisers is planned to leave a lasting impression over the Easter holiday in its 29th edition. On Saturday, fans will be thrilled by 36 men’s teams divided into two divisions, hosts and Division Two defending champions Top Fry Nakuru II seeded top in pool A. Both divisions will run concurrently, hosts Nakuru II fighting for Pool A top spot for a good top eight standing in the 20-team competition. They kick-off their campaign against Meru, Bomet University and KPA Eldoret on Saturday. Pool B of the main division will be headlined by last year’s runner-up Mwamba who are grouped together with KCB, Egerton Wasps and Masinde Muliro University. Pool C honours may go either way after the last minute withdrawal of last year’s bronze medallists Kabras Sugar as the battle will now be between three varsity sides Strathmore Leos, Blakblad and University of Eldoret. The last group has hosts Nakuru RFC pooled with arch-rivals Menengai Oilers, University of Nairobi Mean Machine and Makueni rugby club. Division two category will see Northern Suburbs headline Pool B of the tourney, Grouped with Moi University, Dagoretti Bulldogs and Kenya School of Law. Kiambu RFC and Murunga will renew Central region rivalry in Group C also consisting of Molo and newly formed club Vihiga Granites. Stingers, Brumbies, Zetech University and KCA University will also contest for the top eight finish to feature in the main cup contention from Pool D. The last group, Pool E will see law enforcers Administration Police (AP) contest for top finish against Citam Kisumu, Technical University of Kenya and Nakuru KITI.