Kenya Volleyball Federation (KVF) men’s league defending champions General Service Unit (GSU) have shifted their focus to the local league where they start their title defence tomorrow in Kitui against Nairobi Prisons and Kenya Ports Authority (KPA). The team will be in action for the first time this season in what will be KVF’s second leg. They missed the opening leg in Kitale as they prepared for continental duty. After a below-par performance from the holders at Africa Club Championships in Cairo, Egypt, where they finished ninth, coach Gideon Tarus has prepared his charges for an even tougher season in the local league as they look to retain the title they won unbeaten last season. “We are yet to watch the two teams in action this season but based on last season’s form, we know they are good sides and we expect them to present a real challenge. We have, however, prepared well for the leg and despite missing some key players, I am confident we will do well,” said coach Tarus. Cornelius Kiplagat and Abiud Kipkirui picked injuries, Kiplagat with a fracture on his right hand and Kipkirui a shoulder injury, during the Africa championships and were ruled out for a month. “Their absence will be felt. We have had time to train with their replacements Solomon Bitok and Nicholas Matui and I am positive they will give their best and the squad will deliver,” added the coach. Sustaining injuries The absence of the two players, Kiplagat and Kipkurui at the Africa championship after sustaining injuries in training was felt. The paramilitary side that was in a relatively easy pool failed to go past the group stage. Meanwhile, seventh place Africa Championship finishers and former league champions Kenya Prisons also commence their title campaign in Kitui against hard fighting Equity Bank and fellow warders Nairobi Prisons. In the women’s league defending champions Prisons Kenya will be boosted by the return of last season’s Most Valuable Player (MVP) Mercy Moim after turning out for Thailand champions, Supreme Club on a three month contract. “Moim’s return is a boost to the team as she is an experienced player. The squad’s morale is high and as we travel to Kitui today, our focus is on winning our first match against Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) on Friday morning then work our way to retaining the title as the season unfolds,” said Prisons head coach Josp Barasa said.