Irene Githinji @gitshee The first cohort of Grade Three learners under the new Competence Based Curriculum (CBC) will sit their inaugural national assessment at the end of the year. Kenya National Examinations Council acting chief executive  Mercy Karogo (pictured) said Kenya Early Years Assessment, likened to Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) exam, will help test skills acquired and analyse progress of Grade Three learners. Dr Karogo said similar national assessments will be done at the end of each tier of education. Grade Three learners will be tested on English, Mathematics and Integrated Learning areas. She said all learners will, however, progress to Grade Four. Karogo said details on the administration and marking of the  exams would be communicated later, adding that the curriculum calls for a paradigm shift in the mode of instruction and assessment. Formative assessment “The key inquiry questions focuses on engaging the learners more by thinking critically on issues rather than just recalling information. This ,therefore, calls for a shift in the way we assess…Emphasis will be on formative assessment that is carried out continuously during the learning process,” said Karogo. The assessment will  also test learners ability to apply knowledge, skills, attitude and values as they perform tasks. Other than written tests, teachers will also adopt oral tests for language proficiency and use of key questions to help learners acquire the higher order thinking skills as they solve problems. within their immediate environment,” she explained. The Government launched CBC countrywide in January and has been firm over its implementation despearning outcomes in terms of desired behavioural change. Currently, teachers across the country are undergoing training on the CBC curriculum. The training is focusing on basic education curriculum framework interpretation of curriculum designs, professional documents, integration of ICT in curriculum implementation and assessment of CBC. Ends