Fred Aminga @faminga The Economic Survey 2019 will today be released by Kenya National Bureau of Statistics (KNBS), providing yet another set of crucial data on the economy for the year 2018. In the last survey, Kenya’s economy was estimated to have expanded by 4.9 per cent in 2017 compared to a revised growth of 5.9 per cent in 2016. World Bank indicated in its 18th Kenya Economic Update that real gross domestic product (GDP) hit 5.7 per cent from 4.9 per cent in 2017 while the International Monetary Fund (IMF) projected a 5.5 per cent growth. Economic strategies This assessment is set to inform various social, political and economic strategies going forward as KNBS gives indicators and parameters which influenced the growth, complete with figures. Economic survey is being released even as some analysts claim they have deliberately chosen to ignore evidence-based diagnosis of the economy and instead chosen to confine themselves to mathematical models which give impressive economic growth figures when the reality on the ground is quite different. Overall, the Economic Survey 2019 will highlight performance in 2018 on which current growth will leverage based on performance of key macroeconomic indicators since 2017. It will be informed by capping of interest rates which became effective in September 2016 after which banks are said to have suffocated small and medium enterprises (SMEs) by denying them funds on perceived risk. This also saw an increased appetite for government papers by banks. In the money market, the shilling strengthened against most of the major trading currencies but weakened against the Euro and US Dollar in 2017. The current account deficit widened in on account of significant growth of imports against a slower growth of exports. There was a moderate build-up in inflation mainly due to significant increase in oil and food prices during the year under review. Consequently, inflation rate rose from 6.3 per cent in 2016 to eight per cent in 2017. Various sectors Compared to 2017, last year’s survey indicated that performance across the various sectors of the economy varied widely, with accommodation and food services; information and communication technology; education; wholesale and retail trade; and public administration registering accelerated growths. Unfortunately, there was significant reduced growth in manufacturing, agriculture, forestry and fishing, and financial and insurance sectors which dampened the overall growth in 2017.