Gibo Zachary @PeopleSport11 Reigning champions Central Region kicked off their title defence on a low note, drawing 1-1 with Western Region, as the 12th edition of the National Deaf Football Games got underway at Moi Stadium and Kenyatta Sports Grounds, Kisumu respectively. Central who won the title in Nairobi last year after overpowering Metropolitan 4-2, returned to the championship confident of clinching their second straight title but Western could not allow them enjoy a winning start. Anthony Wachira put champions ahead in the first half but Western responded in the second half through Kevin Ongweso to see both teams settle for a draw and after the match, Central coach Benjamin Macharia remained adamant that they will bounce back and fight to retain their title. “We have prepared well and despite the draw, we are confident the title is ours and we are giving everything we have to defend our crown,” Macharia told People Sport through tournament interpreter Stephen Ouma. The championship kicked off in spectacular way as hosts Lake Region (Nyanza) beat last year’s runners-up Metropolitan (Nairobi) 3-2 in a thrilling opener at Moi Stadium. Humbled Two goals from Ken Kiptoo and another from Mike Ogolla were enough for the lakeside to stop the city boys from Metropolitan who got their goals through Dickson Mayargei and Kennedy Mudomo. Hosts Lake Region were on fire as they humbled North Eastern 5-3 in their second match to book a semi-final slot with a 100 per cent record. Kelvin Otieno grabbed a hat-trick in the match with Victor Otieno and Kennedy Kiptoo finding the back of the net with a goal each as North Eastern got their goals through Yahya Bashir, Abdikahin and Naaley Bashir, while Western Region built on their 1-1 draw with defending champions Central by beating Rift Valley region 1-0, thanks to Philip Kirui’s lone goal. “We are happy, we have started the championship very well considering that we are the host. The players have played as per instructions, they have shown team spirit and our aim is to win the title and we are working hard to ensure we achieve our goal,” said Lake Region coach David Ogogo. According to Deaf Football Association of Kenya (DFAK) national chairman Stephen Waweru, the championship that was scheduled to run for three days will now be a two-day event ending today due to lack of finances. He said the aim of holding the national championship is to help in selecting a team from the best players in the competition who will represent Kenya in the First Africa Deaf Football Cup of Nations set for Nigeria in October after its planned inaugural edition in Nairobi last year failed to kick off due to battles between two controlling bodies in Africa.