Globalisation has led high-end street brands make their way into 254. Alfayo Onyango dissects the effects the Internet has brought to Nairobi’s vibrant fashion scene Nairobi is one of the most urban and vibrant cities in Africa (if not the world) and it’s among the curve of popular culture’s gifts, fashion not being isolated. Brands such as Bongosawa, Mazziwa, Vazzi and Bonkerz Kenya are among emerging Kenyan brands aiming to put 254 on the map in the fashion world. However, stiff competition from global generic brands such as Nike, Supreme, Off-White, Vans, Balenciaga, Tommy Hilfiger, Adidas, Hood By Air, Obey, Palace, North Face and Jordans edge out the local inventory. “In a perfect world, my fellow Africans would be more embracing of each other. They would love and consume more from within the borders and know that we are as cool if not cooler than the rest,” Bonkerz Kenya owner Mvoo Wanje tells Spice. In South Africa, urban fashion brand Ama Kip Kip has proved relatively successful. Japan has Bape courtesy of designer Tomaki Nagao who began the hip camo-inspired brand in 1993 with an aim to be the prime image of Japan street fashion. Today, celebrities and individuals who have a key fashion sense wear Bape globally. It exploded into meteoric stardom universally accumulating Sh100 million annually from sales. THE TRENDS USA was also ahead of the game as early as 1990, with street wear Skateboard brand Supreme establishing itself after beginning in 1994. Jeans company Tommy Hilfiger distinguished itself as the line to be worn most notably when pop star Aaliyah popularised it with her iconic yet unforgettable sense of wardrobe through her music videos and momentous photo shoots. That wouldn’t be the limit as Americans were growing in love with street wear culture knowing they could not afford luxury brands such as France’s Louis Vuitton or Italy’s Fendi, so they focused on creating clothes the common citizens could purchase such as Jordan sneakers. “Kenya has always been in the frame of street wear fashion just as much as the global community. More Kenyan brands are becoming noticeable. There was a certain Balenciaga campaign that looked borrowed from Nairobi. Just from the settings, it really looked like a normal Nairobi day on the streets, so you could tell the world is watching. Just from our mtumba, the culture has been here for ages and Kenyans do appreciate it,” says Bongosawa owner Musa Omusi. Globalisation has erased the borders and the Internet is now where strangers from different countries interact in real time and share their policies, ideas, feelings and cultures. Brands with long life spans have made their mark on Kenyan consumers regardless of class, mostly through the exposure through  social media. Pumped into our markets through second-hand shipping, these brands have engulfed both suburbs and low-income economy areas. “We have to take matters into our own hands and define ourselves as Kenyans from Africa through our style. The time is now and there has never been a more ripe time to distinguish ourselves from everyone else at least through our clothes,” says Ulrich Ondoro of Lowstime clothing line that focuses on alternative custom-made street wear. Global brands such as Supreme are notorious for having their flagship stores in bourgeoisie locations such as Europe, Asia and America, excluding Africa. This has a high suggestion of where their biggest markets exist. Africa is dimmed infamous for producing counterfeit goods, but that custom is not cultivated here alone; it is a universally trait to make people feel that they can also fit in the fashion circles of popular brands. FAKING IT The fraudulent business of reproducing fake popular brands is a multi-billion-shilling industry. The biggest brands only produce material exclusively for their stores to commercialise and have known select retail stores where they still operate their businesses from. Remember, fashion is an art and designers earn their living through the designs they draw and create for the brands to sell. “The local fashion industry is growing slowly and there are people working tirelessly to transform Nairobi into that global hub of fashion solidly. I appreciate Alexis Nereah, Bonkerz, Afro-Arachnida, Nairobi Apparel District, Alvin Gicheru, Memory Lab, Vivi Karia and Magati who all do timeless stuff that embodies Nairobi,” says Musa.