James Magayi @PeopleSports11 Harambee Stars preparations for the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) yesterday received a shot in the arm after Confederation of African Football (CAF) disbursed Sh26 million to Football Kenya Federation (FKF). This comes just days after the government advanced Sh244 million to the federation for the team’s preparations. Stars are scheduled to fly out to France on May 23 for residential training before heading to Egypt for the continent’s premier football showpiece. CAF also wired a similar amount to 23 other federations that will take part in the Afcon which starts on June 21. The money is advanced to help federations with smaller budgets to meet expenses of their preliminary preparations. CAF will deduct the advanced money from premiums usually paid to each country at the end of the tournament. Teams that will be eliminated from group stages are paid Sh47.5 million by CAF while the tournament winner gets Sh475 million. FKF expressed their delight at CAF’s gesture and allayed fears that the proposed training camp had been snapped up by another team. “It is a good move by the continental body. The money will ensure teams go to Egypt well-prepared and able to compete,” FKF media liaison officer Barry Otieno said. “The camp in France will start on May 23 with available players since leagues conclude on different dates. The earlier fears that we will miss the camp are unfounded. I can confirm that we have secured the place and we will train there as earlier planned,” he added. Kenya are in Pool C alongside Algeria, Senegal and neighbours Tanzania. Stars will launch their campaign on June 23 with a fixture against the North Africans who missed last year’s Fifa World Cup in Russia. The Algerians have since improved greatly and are ranked among the best on the continent. The opening clash with the Carthage team will largely dictate how Kenya perform in the tournament. They will be required to win two games to guarantee progress to the quarter-finals. Kenya has never gone beyond group stage in their five appearances at the Afcon.