Murimi Mutiga @murimimutiga The scramble for Kenya’s untapped Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) market has intensified with more foreign companies seeking to establish storage terminals at the port of Mombasa. Seven companies have got approval to establish LPG terminals in Mombasa. The scramble has sparked off serious disagreements among companies seeking approval from government agencies to establish the handling facilities. A number of issues have cropped up among them removal of value added tax and subsidisation of the cost of 6 kilogramme cylinders by the government so as to spur its usage, the ban on logging and ceding of bulk importation of the commodity by the government to private companies. Use of charcoal Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry Mombasa chairperson Rukia Rashid said the ban on logging had driven up the cost of charcoal, thus leaving LPG as the only source of cheap cooking fuel. Rashid, however, said the LPG market was still untapped as majority of Kenyans still used charcoal and firewood. “There is guaranteed return on investment for the LPG sector and therefore, foreign investors want to tap this opportunity,” she said. LPG consumption has risen to between 15,000 and 23,750 tonnes per month, according to the Energy Regulatory Commission (ERC). The market demand is expected to reach more than 250,000 tonnes by 2020. However, lack of adequate storage facilities has been cited as the cause of shortage. According to Africa Gas and Oil Ltd (AGOL), Kenya imports 90 per cent of the LPG consumed locally and also controls a big stake in the transit market to neighbouring countries such as Uganda, South Sudan and Burundi. Small players in the sector make up the remaining 10 per cent. Only Agol has storage and filling terminals at the port. However, vested interests could derail the establishment of the handling and storage facilities with government agencies among them National Environment Management Authority (Nema) and ERC being sucked into the wars over control of the market. Among the companies include Mansa East Africa, which recently started construction of a Sh7.5 billion onshore storage and filling facility at Liwatoni area at the port. The facility will handle 12,500 tonnes of LPG monthly. Mansa is a partnership between US company Petredec and Kenya’s Rift Gas. Rift Gas Ltd chairman Njuki Mwaniki said the first phase of the project will be completed in November. Safety issues Kenya Ports Authority (KPA), ERC and the Kenya Ferry Services (KFS) had opposed construction of the facility citing safety issues. However, Nema has allowed the multinational to set up the cooking gas storage plant. KPA, ERC and KFS had argued that the proposed site for the project is at the port’s channel, thus may pose danger to incoming and departing ships. Mombasa Gas Terminal (MGT)plans to put up a Sh8 billion handling facility after receiving its licence. MGT is a subsidiary of Milio Group, an international fuel firm with supporting activities across the Oil and Gas spectrum, including upstream, midstream and downstream fuel operations and infrastructure. Taifa Gas Kenya Ltd of Tanzania is also fighting to get a market share in Kenya as it plans to set up a 6,000 tonnes storage facility in Takaungu area of Kilifi. However, the project has run into trouble after Ministry of Lands, the National Land Commission (NLC) and Nema raised objection to the setting up of its terminal and a mooring point, saying it would pollute the ocean. KPA is also constructing two LPG lines on the proposed Kipevu Oil Terminal (KOT). One of the lines will be leased to private entities with the government running the first one. KPC is also planning to develop another facility that will serve all players importing gas for the local market. The facility will have the capacity to handle between 30,000 and 50,000 tonnes annually.