George Kebaso @Morarak Over half a million Kenyan children under the age of five are already bearing the burden of acute malnutrition with the number expected to rise sharply due to increasing depressed rainfall. Agencies working in the Horn of Africa have now raised alarm over risk of worsening food insecurity situation in parts of Kenya, Ethiopia, Somalia and Uganda. Rainfall deficits The Inter-governmental Authority on Development (Igad), the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO), and World Food Programme (WFP) said on Tuesday about a million Kenyans are also in acute need of food, and the number is expected to rise if forecast rainfall deficits come true. Although the food insecure population is lower than the  numbers observed during the drought in 2017, where about 15.3 million people were identified as food insecure, Igad said  there is a high risk of a worsening situation due to forecast rainfall deficits. “The delay in the start of the March to May long rains, coupled with forecasted rainfall deficits are building on already dry conditions due to poor October to December rains over some parts of the Greater Horn of Africa,” Igad Climate Prediction and Applications Centre director Guleid Artan said. Rainfall predictions for the remaining season between April 15 and May 31, Artan said, suggest that parts of the region will receive below average rainfall. This situation aid the current 2019 projections that show a worrying regional nutrition outlook, that is likely to deteriorate in the coming months with 2.76 million children under five expected to suffer from acute malnutrition in Ethiopia, 903,086 in Somalia and an estimated 541 309 in Kenya. “In total, over four million children are predicted to require support for acute malnutrition. This does not include the additional three million pregnant and breastfeeding women nor the potential additional numbers if robust prevention is not actively implemented,” an ICPAC analysis shows. Malnutrition worrying The WFP regional director for East Africa Erika Joergensen said the current projects for malnutrition in 2019 are worrying. “Given the dry conditions so far and if rains continue to be delayed, the numbers needing nutrition support will only grow. Nutrition supplies need to be urgently pre-positioned before numbers in need of treatment rise to possibly emergency levels,” he added.