Hillary Mageka @hillarymageka Counties in the less developed and hardship-prone areas in northern Kenya have been ranked the most notorious in the roll of infamy—bastions of graft. In a report tabled in the Senate by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption commission (EACC), Mandera, which also tops nationally, is joined by Wajir, Marsabit and famine-hit Turkana. Western Kenya and opposition-led counties of Kisumu, Busia, Nyamira and Uasin Gishu follow each other in positions two, three, four and nine respectively. Nairobi, the country’s capital, takes position six after Murang’a to make the top 10 in the corruption index ranking — a list of shame of counties where Kenyans have to give kick backs to get services. However, EACC has placed the South Rift counties of Kericho and Bomet to be less costly in demanding kickbacks to access services. Governors Paul Chepkwony, now serving his second term and Isaac Ruto, who was defeated by Joyce Labaso in the 2017 poll were in charge of Kericho and Bomet respectively. In the report covering the periods between 2015 and 2017, it would cost you Sh35,440 to access services in Mandera in 2017, compared to Sh6,972 and Sh80,000 in 2016 and 2017 respectively. It is worth noting that the period covered was during the reign of some of inaugural governors in the devolved counties. Access services For instance, Kisumu, which was under Governor Jack Ranguma, is second in the ranking, one needed to part with more than Sh25, 000 to access the same service compared to an average of Sh18,000 demanded by Busia county. The current Kisumu governor is Prof Anyang Nyong’o. In the Mwangi Wa Iria-led Murang’a county, an average of Sh9,000 was the key to services. For Marsabit and Turkana, the figure was Sh7,859 and Sh6,791 to access needed services. The report also singles out departments of health and public works in all the 47 counties as the most corrupt. The other dockets are land and physical planning departments, which contributed 29.1 per cent and 14.3 per cent individually in 2015 in revving up graft. In the same year, County Public Service Board and office of the Governor expenditure is said to have funded graft at 11.3 per cent and 7.5 per cent alone. In 2016, the dockets of Health and Road, Transport and Public Works scaled up their ranking in corruption at 37.4 per cent and 22.5 per cent while Education, Water Finance and Planning ranked 15.4, 8.6 and 7.8 per centage points respectively. Although the health ministry dropped in the corruption index by 15.2 per cent in 2017, the ministry of Roads, Transport and Public Works increased their rating to 24.3 per cent compared to Finance and Planning at 17.8 per cent, Land and Physical Planning at 8 per cent and County Public Service Board at 6.7 per cent. In the same report, bribery taking among the 47 counties was placed at 66.2 per cent and was cited as the most prevalent form of corruption according to Arch Bishop (Rtd)  Eliud Wabukala-led commission. Other forms of corruption and unethical conduct witnessed during the year under review included; abuse of office, favouritism delay of service provision, discrimination, lateness, embezzlement and misappropriation of public funds categorised at 6.4 per cent, 5.2 per cent, 4.9 per cent, 4.1 per cent  1.7 per cent  and 1.5 per cent   respectively. Most notorious However, there was more revelation in their findings on an average time a bribe is demanded and paid  by the county officials to offer crucial services as health, education and water. In the category of counties that demanded a kickback to offer services Turkana county was ranked the most notorious while Nyeri was rated least in the bribe demand. Mandera, Kirinyaga, Murang’a, Meru, Tana River, Uasin Gishu, Kwale, Samburu, Kiambu, Kitui, Nyandarua, Marsabit, Embu, Tharaka Nithi, Mombasa, Kilifi, Wajir, West Pokot, Homabay, Machakos, Nakuru, Laikipia and Garissa. Others include Migori, Nyamira, Kajiado, Nairobi, TransNzoia, Kisii, Makueni, Kisumu, Narok, Elgeyo Marakwet, Siaya, Vihiga, Taita Taveta, Isiolo, Bomet, Kericho, Bungoma, Busia, Nandi, Kakamega, Baringo, Lamu and Nyeri. But in the average times a citizen would bribe, the hunger stricken of Turkana maintained the lead and closely followed by Mandera, Uashi Gishu, Laikipia, Garissa, Kiambu, Tana river , Kwale, Nyandarua, Wajir, Homabay and Kericho. They were followed by Coastal counties of Kilifi and Mombasa.  Others are Nakuru, Trans Nzoia, Taita Taveta, Kajiado, Meru, Migori, Elgeyo Marakwet, Vihiga and Nairobi city.