Murang’a County Development Implementation and Coordination Committee has given a two-week notice to a road contractor to replace a water pipeline destroyed during road construction. Failure to restore the pipeline, the committee will recommend that the government withholds payments to the contractor or press charges against the firm. The committee, chaired by area County Commissioner Mohammed Barre, had summoned Shengli Construction Company over the 2.5km long pipeline along Mukuyu-Kambirwa-Mirira-Gwa Thamaki road in Kiharu constituency. The pipeline that was destroyed eight months ago is valued at Sh24 million. Athi Water Services Board (ASWB)  had installed the pipeline for use by Murang’a Water and Sanitation Company to supply water to about 60,000 residents of Kambirwa and Mirira areas. Shengli company that was represented by Liu BingTuo and Wilson Gachie, however, claimed it had not formally received communication about replacement of the pipes or quotations on the same, even though AWSB said they had communicated the same to Kenya Rural Roads Authority (KeRRA), the custodian of the road. The committee said it was reckless of the contractor to leave the broken pipeline unattended for more than eight months, warning that stern action would be taken against them if they did not restore the pipes. Barre reiterated that road contractors have to take care of service installations laid along the roads and must work together with other agencies to ensure safety of essential installations to avoid disruption of services to the public. At the same time, agencies with service installations along road reserves have been urged to confirm the road boundaries before laying lines such as water pipes or electricity lines.  Service installations should be laid at least 10 metres away from the centre of the road. The county development committees were formed by Executive Order No 1 of 2019 to coordinate and monitor the implementation of National government programmes and projects and identify solutions to bottlenecks that hinder their implementation at the grassroots level.