I had been having a rough day and was hoping for a lively pop in at Geco Café. As is every Thursday, Silayio was performing and I was excited about it. I have become a big fan and if you have ever seen her perform live, then you know why. Sadly, I got there when she was just about to wrap up, so, I have made a plan to catch her next week. That didn’t mean I turned back at the gate. It was cold and drizzling, but,  I won’t complain because I’m one of those people who went to pray on top of Mt Kenya beseeching the God of our ancestors to part the skies open for the rains to come down. My denim jacket did the trick and my snazzy buckle boots kept my feet warm. Located on Mbaazi Avenue just off Kingara road, I expected Geco Café to be big and buzzing with activity. The latter yes; but it wasn’t massive. Some people were perched outside by the bar, others on the terrace and the rest inside the small café. I found a good spot inside the café and took in the beautiful set up before placing an order. Now, this was my kind of vibe. The rustic interior is absolutely stunning. As I craned my neck to look around, I was instantly drawn to a hoisted guitar turned into a wall décor accessory holding miniature plant pots. This fun functional aspect of an old guitar would have never crossed my mind. I have thought of turning one into a tiny bookshelf but not this. Speaking of a bookshelf, there was a big one on the right side wall. Other tiny bookshelves were suspended on the opposite wall, hanging underneath a trove of wines. The walls were decorated with countless bright coloured plant pots, metallic art crafts, framed art pieces and a stack of tiny cylindrical wood pieces carved from several planks. Everything about Geco Café reminded me of my belief that nothing is really trash. It just depends on how creative and innovative one is to be able to see life in everything around them. The ambience was a soft glow aided by lanterns and the mood spiced up by a playlist of Sia. It wasn’t loud and overcrowded. Definitely a perfect place for a date with yourself, lover, family or even friends. Although the café wasn’t spacious, the sitting arrangement with different types of seats allows room to wiggle and so it doesn’t feel stuffy or squeezed. The Geco staff is friendly and attentive to patron’s needs. And just like the rest of the establishment, the washrooms were sparkling. Well, I wouldn’t know about the gents’ washrooms though. Since it was cold, I wanted to have a bowl of light soup and it was very delicious. Afterwards, a generous serving of fries and chicken with salad on the side sat before me on a wooden platter. I couldn’t finish the tasty meal so I had it nicely packed for takeaway. I can’t believe I had never heard of Geco Café before. What a gem. Thanks to my editor, it’s going to be one of my favourite spots in Nairobi. I love sitting outside but I think the interior had me at the first peek, so it will be my hiding zone.