Hillary Mageka A supremacy battle is brewing in the bicameral parliament over allegations that Senate was overstepping its mandate and invading on the National Assembly territory. This is after Leader of Majority in the National Assembly Aden Duale and his Minority counterpart John Mbadi accused senators of duplicating the work of MPs contrary to the law. Replication, they said, had made it difficult for the Executive to effectively cooperate with both Houses. In particular, Mbadi lamented that State officers and other top government officials attend the session of Parliamentary committees to present the same information presented at the National Assembly and the Senate. For instance, he said, during the probe on the acquisition of Ruaraka land saga, Cabinet Secretaries and top State officials appeared for the National Assembly committee on Lands and Senate’s County Public Accounts Committee. Same roles While the report by Lands committee of the National Assembly was adopted, the Senate’s report was rejected amid accusations of bribery. “I don’t think, it was the intention of Kenyans to be over-represented and having many committees of Houses of parliament doing the same job,” Mbadi told his colleagues at the second leadership retreat of the National Assembly held in Mombasa on Saturday. “We need to have clear guidelines, where the work and scope of a committee of a House of parliament start and ends,” he added. His sentiments were echoed by Interior Cabinet secretary Fred Matiang’i who said the Executive had been most affected as a result of conflicting roles of the two Houses. “No one pays a higher price than the Executive branch of government. And my colleagues can attest to this. Every time I see three or four letters I keep asking, don’t these people have a central place to know which committee has invited who?” Matiang’i told lawmakers. He called for “more inter-branch clarity” to help the Executive and the Legislature have better engagement. Mbadi who is Suba South MP,  said the Senate should stick to their role as is stipulated in the Constitution. Duale, who is Garissa Town MP, termed the Senate as a weak institution blaming the framers of the Constitution for watering down its role. According to him, the Senate was envisaged to be an upper or referral House that handles the weight national and legislative matters. “Cabinet Secretaries, their Principal Secretaries and other State officials must appear before National Assembly committees, not the Senate,” he said. Media blamed “As lawmakers, we must work with the Executive to complement its role and the Senate must redefine its role for effective time management and proper governance,” he said. Mbadi, however, blamed the media for fuelling sibling rivalry and unnecessary wars between the two Houses of parliament. Last year, Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja and his Makueni counterpart, Mutula Kilonzo Jnr, sponsored the Determination of the Nature of Bills (Procedure) Bill, 2018, that seeks to end fights between the two Houses. Deputy Speaker Moses Cheboi said the Constitution was expressly clear on the mandate of the Senate and National assembly.