Rose Wakesho At any workplace, achieving a healthy work-life balance has become the greatest challenge. Correct me if I’m wrong, but between juggling heavy workload, managing relationships, family responsibilities and squeezing in other interests can be hectic. It’s no surprise one in four people describe themselves as “super stressed.” That’s not balanced—or healthy. How can one have a successful career without sacrificing personal time and family? The concept of work-life balance is defined as proper prioritising between “work” (career and ambition) and “lifestyle” (health, family and spiritual development). In our rush to “get it all done” at the office and at home, it’s easy to forget that as our stress levels spike, our productivity plummets. Stress can zap our concentration, make us irritable and harm our personal and professional relationships. What’s clear then is that, in our workplaces and in our circles, there are people with mental health problems, or just keeping afloat, whether we know it or not. Over a prolonged period of time, stress also weakens our immune system, and makes us susceptible to a variety of ailments. Research shows that chronic stresses can actually double one’s risk of having a heart attack. Dr Deepak Bhatt, director of the Integrated Interventional Cardiovascular Programme at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in the US, says the condition is known as “broken heart syndrome”. The syndrome is an example of the cardiovascular damage that can result from a severe, acute form of stress. But what about everyday stresses, such as rush-hour traffic, marriage strains, and on-the-job aggravation? The connection between these chronic forms of stress and heart disease isn’t as well defined. “I think the conventional opinion is that stress is bad for your heart, but the statistics are much murkier,” Bhatt says. Experts have sounded a warning against rising cases of untreated, work-related depression in the country. There are so many people who seem happy, yet they’re not. Or rather, they’re simply “walking dead”. Adverse impact The concept of work-life balance is becoming more important in the fast changing working environment. Increased working hours have adverse impact on the lifestyle of most people, which ultimately affects their social and psychological well-being. Work-life balance has become an important area of human resource management. Researchers are constantly looking for innovative ways to improve employee morale, retain employees and provide suitable ways to employers to help facilitate a better balance at the workplace. So how do we treat and have a conversation about the mental wellbeing in the workplace? Kenya seems like a difficult work environment as it is. Complaints about fatigue, bullying and harassment at workplaces are often translated into one being ungrateful. This explains why so many employees are committing suicide. The World Health Organisation states that close to 800,000 people commit suicide every year, which means one person every 40 seconds. Many more attempt suicide. Alphabet Inc., an American multinational conglomerate and also the parent company of Google, is considered one of the best employers in the world. It is known for, among other things, great working conditions and benefits as well as diversity. This  is proof that if you give employees a good working environment, they will deliver. Finding the perfect balance should not only be a concern for junior staff, but also upper and mid-level managers, who are traditionally known to exude confidence and poise. They seem to be the epitome of success and look like they have it all together. But when the cameras aren’t rolling, the immense pressure and the psychological extremes get them to reveal themselves. For instance, Apple Inc and co-founder, the late Steve Jobs, often displayed characteristics of bipolar disorder. In her famous book, Lean In, Sheryl Sandberg, the Chief Operating Officer at Facebook reveals the challenging emotional struggles that women face in positions of power, particularly when the same leadership traits are viewed differently when exhibited by men, and how these situations can negatively affect mental health. Stress is a common condition of today’s world, however, when it leads to depression and anxiety, it can interfere in your personal and professional responsibilities. Focus on those things in the workplace that you can control and you’ll greatly reduce the load you have to bear. Remember to reach out to a close friend and confide in them as by so doing, you’re building a support system. Lastly, work is important, but you can’t be married to your job. Try to develop friendships, exercise and eat healthy food, and take time off for vacations. We all need to de-stress regularly.  —rozziewakesho19@gmail.com