A planned probe on the operations of the Kenya Police Airwing is already facing headwinds following disputes over which parliamentary committee should spearhead the process. A day after the National Assembly National Security committee chairman Paul Koinange announced a probe on the operations at the Airwing will commence, some members of the committee claimed that the team cannot be trusted to carry out a fair probe. One of the members and Kiminini MP Didmus Barasa told People Daily he will be requesting National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi to direct that an ad hoc committee be formed to carry out the probe. Annual servicing “We fear our committee might be compromised to carry out shoddy investigations because of the vested interests some members have with the Executive,” he  said. He wondered why the committee, after touring the Police Airwing where members were briefed on the operations of the agency by the management, no report was  prepared. Operations at the Kenya Police Airwing have been grounded as its aircraft cannot fly as they are unserviceable. Five of the aircraft bought last year from United States and Italy, which the ministry indicated were brand new, were indeed refurbished machines from Ukraine. The MI-17 aircraft were procured at a cost of Sh1.4 billion each, which means Sh7 billion was spent to buy second hand aircraft. Another five choppers have been grounded because of mechanical problems. The Russian -made MI-17 helicopters were repaired last year but after operating for a month, the engines failed and have since not been repaired. The aircraft,  according to a well placed source, cannot fly as they have not undergone the mandatory annual servicing, which could cost millions of shillings. Revoke licence The Kenya Civil Aviation Authority (KCAA) has since threatened to revoke the licences of choppers owned by police as they do not have insurance covers. It has also emerged that the Air-wing fleet of 10 choppers cannot fly for lack of insurance cover of Sh25 million. The other five choppers have not been serviced in the last two years. The National Assembly Committee on Administration and National Security has since opened a probe on the purchase of the aircraft by the department.