For the longest time my best friends and I have been planning to have some time to ourselves and just bond. However, every time we planned a date, something cropped up and we would soon find ourselves back to square one. One of my friends seriously needed a mumcation and couldn’t wait for the vacation. So when we finally managed to secure the dates for travel, it was time to choose the cheapest option, as well as a place, which would accommodate all our travel needs. A villa is the best option should you be a large group and you desire to have your own privacy and freedom. Also, if you are an introvert who doesn’t enjoy the company of other people except your close circle, I would recommend villas for your next stay. You will have seclusion and the intimacy that only a private home allows. We opted for Kiboko Nyumba villas, well, because from the website, they seemed spacious and had a swimming pool and looked like a place where we could have peace and quiet. We had a disastrous SGR trip where someone who posed as a travel agent conned us and we were forced to pay again for our tickets. Being the first time using the SGR, that was a rude shock that will stick in my memory but in the end, we arrived safe and sound to be met by the entire team of Hammer, Rama and the wonderful madam Joyce. It was a good surprise to find a spacious living room with a satellite flat screen TV and a dining room by the side. From the website, things didn’t look this spacious. The villa is comes with four separate bedrooms and we each opted to doze separately. I took the upper room, which was ideally for a couple as it had a spacious bed with a washroom as well as an open space where one can work and even play monopoly or cards with company. We had to send for supplies in the house and for our supper that would be prepared by Chef Rama. Since we were many, the budget was cheaper and we had the option of choosing what we desired to eat that night. One also has the option of eating outside or even cook for youself to cut down the budget even further while staying in a villa. We devoured a whole kuku wa nazi with rice and juice by the side and soon succumbed to the enveloping warmth of a full belly, taking our forty winks immediately. The next day was spent relaxing by the pool (though I don’t know to swim yet), playing monopoly and making full use of the table tennis table. The villa has a mkwaju tree, and on that day together with my friends, we decided to relieve our primary school memories and reminisce on how to make both the ice-lollies -which were sold for one shilling-and the juice. Being a workaholic, I tried as much as I could in the trip not to check my emails or my next stories and my friends tried my best to ensure that I stuck to the plan. I relapsed many times though, especially during meal-time when everything had to stand still for me to take the perfect shot of the food or when something interesting was happening on social media. It was also awesome having a whole pool to ourselves without sharing the pool or scrambling for sun loungers. We opted to go for a full day excursion during our final days and Hama, our guide, assisted us negotiate for the best deals and the best experience watching dolphins and snorkeling. It was our first time to do this as friends and it created perfect memories and was an awesome bonding session, especially when my friends helped me out with the photos pointing out where the dolphins would next jump. The villa is not far from the beach and had our moments taking photos and evading the beach boys who would come peddling their products. The homely environment in this villa made me weep on our final day but I have placed it at the top of my list of my go-to places in Watamu.