Hillary Mageka @hillarymageka Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka has rallied Members of County Assemblies (MCAs) to join President Uhuru Kenyatta’s war against corruption. Lusaka, who described graft as a social ill that robs citizens of their economic right, told MCAs to be on the forefront in weeding out the vice in their respective county governments. “As Senate, we will lay emphasis on proactive audit practices of programmes that assess value for money to wananchi,” Lusaka said even as he called on the office of the Auditor General to be releasing timely audit reports. This, he added, will enable the Senate and county assemblies make timely interventions. “Towards this end, we shall continue to engage the Judiciary and other anti-graft agencies to ensure there is no weak link in the fight against corruption,” he added. Lusaka urged assemblies to adopt innovative methods and put in place mechanisms for assessment to performance in their respective counties. “We urge our development partners to help county assemblies come up with appropriate measures to ensure smooth running of counties,” he said. Speaking during the closing ceremony of the fourth annual Legislative Summit in Kisumu, Lusaka, a former governor, said county governments need to own the Big Four agenda and enhance it through public participation. Impact operations “I, therefore, urge all relevant stakeholders to ensure that even financing the Big Four agenda is devolved just as other functions to ensure support, participation, ownership and success,” he said. Nevertheless, the Speaker promised to fast-track pending legislation that impact county assembly operations and ward representatives’ welfare once the House resumes business. “We shall work closely with the National Assembly to fast-track bills and relevant legislation to ensure improved service delivery, welfare and wellbeing of members and staff,” said Lusaka. Among the bills MCAs want prioritised include the County Pension Scheme and Equitable Development.