Martin Mwita @MwitaMartin KCB Group interest in acquiring 100 per cent of struggling National Bank of Kenya (NBK), makes it the second on a fumbling lender in just four months. This is after closing on Imperial Bank in December last year in an undisclosed deal after the bank went under receivership in October 2015, in what the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) had termed unsafe banking conditions. NBK on the other hand has been struggling with its operations amid a series of losses. In 2016, it reported a net loss of Sh1.15 billion for the period to December 2015, from a net profit of Sh2.25 billion in the nine months to September 2015. The bank has been hit by a series of scandals including ‘cooking of books’, which has left the majority State-owned lender on the verge of collapse. The government and the National Social Security Fund (NSSF) have a combined 70.55 per cent stake in NBK, 48.05 and 22.50 per cent, respectively. Cheaper acquisition There have been concerns that the bank’s woes have been created to pave way for a cheaper acquisition by wealthy individuals. Some top government officials are said to have been eyeing NBK as they sought to beef up their wealth portfolio and gain financial instruments to drive their political careers. “It is racketeering of the first division. You run it down, loans die with it. You buy it at a cheaper price. That is what is happening,” a source privy to the bank’s operations told Business Hub. In April last year, Capital Markets Authority (CMA) punished eight former senior NBK managers for falsifying books and stealing more than Sh1 billion. Attempts by Treasury to convert more than Sh5 billion debt owed by the bank to ordinary shares failed in 2015, with NBK insisting on paying the debt. The move was linked to a ploy to keep the government on the blind side of the bank’s operations as a section of the board strategised on how to sell it. The bank has since 2011 lacked a stable management where the chief executive’s seat has become a musical chair game. The most recent was the exit of former CEO Munir Ahmed who was shown the door on poor performance. NBK has issued a profit warning for the financial year ended December 2018, citing higher loan impairment charges and restructuring costs. KCB is seeking to acquire the lender in a transaction valued at Sh6.6 billion. The move will see NBK delisted from the Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) where both are listed. Their shares are currently suspended from trading to allow negotiations to take place. KCB offer will be by way of a share swap at a ratio of 10:1, 10 ordinary shares of NBK for one ordinary share of KCB, whose shares are currently trading at Sh4.7 and Sh45, respectively as at April 18. It is not clear whether NBK will continue trading with its name but going by KCB Group CEOe Joshua Oigara’s statement, the lender could still retain its brand. “The proposed transaction will further consolidate the banking sector in Kenya and will create stronger “institutions” enabling KCB to play a bigger role in the financial inclusion agenda,” said Oigara. It has emerged the government could be behind the move, as it pushes for more consolidations in the market, perceived to be over banked. In a different narrative, the government is said to be keen to secure the lender from “wrong hands”. “Government shareholding in KCB is what is pushing it to make moves on these lenders. There has always been a need to have fewer banks with large capital bases which can provide enough liquidity to support the economy, especially in funding mega infrastructure projects and supporting international trade,” explains John Kirimi, former Sterling Capital Investment director and currently an independent financial expert. Fewer banks The government has a 17.53 per cent stake in KCB, making it one of the biggest single shareholders. NSSF holds 6.05 per cent in the bank. KCB’s move further compliments CBK, which has been encouraging mergers and acquisitions to strengthen the industry on fewer banks. “We want consolidation but natural consolidation,” CBK governor Patrick Njoroge said recently. Currently, there are 42 commercial banks and one mortgage finance institution – Housing Finance, serving the country which has a population of about 45 million people. Compared to an economy like Nigeria, which has more than 150 million people with between six and eight strong banks, financial experts feel Kenya is overbanked. “A few years back we had 66 banks where about four or five were controlling 70 per cent of the market. We are overbanked and I think KCB is on the right track,” Kirima told Business Hub. Financial muscle Being the largest bank by asset, currently at Sh714.3 billion, KCB financial muscles also places it at a strategic position to acquire smaller banks. “KCB is looking for growth and strategic acquisitions. NBK, which is undercapitalised, was a good target,” said Caleb Mugendi, assistant head of public markets at Cytonn Asset Managers. “The transaction is in line with our expectation of increased consolidation in the Kenya banking sector, as players with depleted capital positions become acquired by their larger counterparts or merge together to form well capitalised entities capable of navigating the relatively tough operating environment induced by price controls on lending rates and exacerbated by the stiff competition,” he added. Oigara recently said the number of banks operating in the country needed to shrink, suggesting Kenya needs only 20 banks. The KCB’s move brings to about 13 banking merger and acquisition deals in the last six years, six of which were announced between August last year and this year.