AMOS ABUGA Seven matches have been lined up in the SportPesa Premier League over the Easter weekend with record champions Gor Mahia playing in three of those. Hassan Oktay-side started the weekend with a drawn match against Kakamega Homeboys Friday and end the weekend with home a fixture against Bandari on Tuesday, in between there is a match against 2010 winners Ulinzi Stars Sunday. Gor were denied a win at death by an Allan Wanga equaliser to end one-all. Club chairman Ambrose Rachier is bemused with the fixtures while sympathising with the players and the technical bench. “Not even elite clubs are able to play five matches in one week. We have to feel for the players,” said Rachier in press conference in Nairobi on Thursday. “Some of this things are beyond us, and as a club we have no option but honour the fixtures,” he said. Gor are third on the log with 44 points one behind leaders Sofapaka who have played an astonishing five more matches. Leaders Sofapaka will travel to Awendo to play hosts Sony Sugar at the Green Stadium. The 2009 winners who settled for a 1-1 draw with Kariobangi Sharks in their midweek match will be weary of the threat posed by seventh-placed Sony, despite being 10 points behind. The first leg encounter ended goalless. Sunday Ulinzi with the returning Benjamin Nyangweso will be hoping fatigue comes to their rescue in the match against the champions.  Ulinzi won 2-0 from the first leg stages at the Afraha Stadium last September. The relegation highlight match of the weekend will pit Zoo Kericho, fresh from sacking head coach Sammy Okoth facing Posta Rangers Sunday. Zoo despite beating Vihiga United in their midweek encounter are a second from bottom with 20 points. Victory over Rangers (21) we see them leapfrog on the standings. Zoo won the first leg 1-0. Fresh from a total overhaul of their technical bench headed by Mike Mururi, Vihiga will host hot and cold Mathare United hoping to increase their point tally from their current 20 and therefore improving their 16th place standing on the log. Monday will see almost relegated Mount Kenya United take on Kakamega Homeboyz. Results from the last three League fixtures for the rebranded Nakumatt FC have been shocking. Despite winning 4-3 against Chemelil Sugar in their last match, Mount Kenya have conceded 15 goals in the last three fixtures. It will be interesting to see whether the trend of freely shipping in goals continues on Monday. Homeboyz won 6-0 in the corresponding fixture.