Irene Githinji and KNA @PeopleDailyKe Nairobi county on Friday said it is on high alert following cases of cholera outbreak to prevent further transmission. County Health executive Mohammed Dagane said, in a public notice, the county has activated risk communication initiatives by creating awareness, sensitisation and social mobilisation on prevention and control measures at the community level, institutions and the work place. Three public cholera treatment centres; Mama Lucy Kibaki, Mbagathi and Riruta health facilities have been activated for admission and treatment of suspected cases. Dagane urged residents to report illegal water connections and any cases of water contamination, rampant sewer bursts and overflows. He said the county has intensified surveillance of cholera and diarrhoea cases in addition to promoting hygiene and mapping of water bowsers. “All public hospitals and facilities are on high alert for cholera and should report any suspected cases. Cholera response teams have been activated at county and sub-county levels,” said Dagane. Elsewhere, Nyeri county issued a cholera outbreak alert following reported cases in Nairobi, Machakos, Garissa and Kajiado counties. County Health executive Rachel Kamau said owing to the proximity and frequent interaction between Nyeri and the affected counties, especially Nairobi where an outbreak has been reported, there was increased danger of cross-border transmission. In press statement, Kamau announced a raft of measures that must be adopted forthwith including a ban on food hawking. She cautioned residents to avoid roadside eateries as well as maintain high levels of hygiene. She further directed that all food outlets should be re-inspected to ensure conformity with Public Health Act, especially with regard to sanitation. Health personnel in all facilities have also been put on high alert and asked to heighten public health surveillance activities in order to respond quickly should any cholera case be reported. “Any suspected cholera case must be reported to the office of the County Director of Health for further investigations and immediate response,” she said. Kamau directed that all households with no access to treated piped water be supplied with free chlorine tablets to ensure they consume safe water. Residents have also been encouraged to observe preventive measures including proper hand washing with clean water and soap after visiting a latrine and before handling or eating food. Other measures include proper disposal of human waste, keeping cooked food covered to avoid contamination by flies as well as keeping the environment clean. Cholera symptoms include sudden onset of profuse watery diarrhea with an average incubation period of two to three days.