Reports on Kenya’s shrinking export earnings as the import bill balloons is disturbing. The question is where the rains started beating a country that has been the region’s manufacturing and economic hub. While economic experts and other policy analysts will blame the dwindling fortunes that have reversed the balance of trade in favour of neighbours on liberalised trading regime, the truth is the government dropped the ball in policy formulation. It embraced a laissez-faire policy — just opened the doors to everything and anything to the  detriment of local enterprises that now face unfair competition from firms that are significantly subsided. This is not fair and open trade, but anarchy killing local firms that support manufacturing and create jobs. Others have been forced to flee to investment-friendlier countries. While the economy expanded by 6.3 per cent in 2018, the trade deficit also expanded to Sh90.4 billion by February 2019 from Sh72 billion last year. This squeezes momentum from exports. At the expense of current policies, other countries have expanded their exports significantly, some ending up in Kenya, upsetting trade deficits through trade substitutions. The government must listen to the concerns of manufacturers who are the lifeline for exports when they reveal loopholes which the government must deal with to spur growth. Part of what is hurting Kenyan firms is the erratic multiple fees and levies for an economy which wants manufacturing sector to grow at 10 per cent. The ease with which illicit trade thrives in Kenya is another worry which has made it difficult for local industry to prosper, with more than Sh30 billion  reportedly lost by manufacturers annually. Coupled with high power tariffs and labour costs which pile up the cost of production, locally manufactured goods have become more expensive within the regional markets. For instance, Ethiopia  has made its electricity very affordable ranging between $0.03 (Sh3) and $0.04 (Sh4) per Kwh compared to Kenya’s charges of between $0.14 (Sh14.1) to $0.21 (Sh21.1) per Kwh depending on tariff bands. Our policy makers need to go back to the drawing board and perhaps even borrow a leaf from Donald Trump’s mantra of America First. It must be about Kenya first; our economy, jobs creation and growth. of any wrong committed. Those with other parameters  in seeking vengeance must get a taste of the law themselves. The avalanche of morbid fear the elderly in parts of this country have to shake off daily, makes a mockery of the presumption of innocent till proven guilty.