Classical violinist Ken Mwiti plays in the country’s top orchestra ensembles, conducts and teaches music. He tells Cynthia Mukanzi he can play the guitar only to tolerable levels, but his love for the violin lives in classical music As a classically trained violinist, do you play contemporary music or you focus purely on classicals? I sometimes play contemporary music on demand, but I prefer playing classical music. It’s basically music that existed between the 1600s and 1900s and originating from Europe. You play with Kenya Conservatoire of Music Orchestra, National Youth Orchestra of Kenya, Nairobi Orchestra and Nairobi String Quartet. What do you take away from being part of these ensembles? I get to learn a lot of things because the orchestra has a number of people who are more experienced than I am. Not only do I learn violin skills, but about other music-related things as well. Do you ever do solo performances, maybe when invited for occasions? I try to avoid that because I prefer having full sound and with the rest of the group. I enjoy the mixture of different timbres from the various instruments that constitute an orchestra. I also love the big sound. I usually recommend people to go for a whole orchestra, but if their budget doesn’t fit, then I can try to do something for them. Is classical music a genre you consciously drifted towards? It’s been eight years since I became a classical violinist. So, in order to learn how to play the violin, it was crucial to play classical music because one gets a lot of technique. This made me listen and appreciate classical music. It is my favourite alongside jazz, film music, musicals and anything else with good orchestration. Do you have your own compositions? I do not have my own compositions yet. Composing is an important skill and craft that I don’t take for granted. It’s something that you can be able to do once you have fully mastered the skill and I feel like I’m still learning. I enjoy interpreting other people’s works. You also teach music. Why did you choose teaching? I like to share the knowledge I have on the violin and music in general. I also need capital to survive in this world. It’s a more stable source of income as compared to gigging. What does it take for one to become a classical violin music teacher? One needs a lot of experience in performance and also doing some exams on your instrument. In Kenya, ABRSM exams (facilitated by the Royal Schools of Music) are used to rank classical musicians. Does a music conductor require the same or more? They must have an understanding of how all instruments work, a vast knowledge on classical music, musicianship, leadership and communication skills. Who are your best violinists and music composers? I like many top violinists and composers. Alexandra Soumm, Ray Chen, Hilary Hahn and Janine Jansen, among others, are among my top violists. As for composers, Tchaikovsky, Beethoven, Mozart and Bach take the lead. What memorable experience has being a musician come with? A lot of travelling and meeting great people from different parts of the world. I was in Paris last summer for a workshop with renowned violinist Alexandra Soumm with my colleagues for about a week. We learnt so much and that improved our playing.