Irene Githinji and PSCU The Cabinet has warned millers against taking advantage of the drought situation to hike maize flour prices. President Uhuru Kenyatta said stern action would be taken against those who will hoard maize and other essential food items. Cabinet also assured Kenyans that the government will take necessary measures to ensure prices of basic food commodities remain stable. And as an additional step to mitigate the drought situation, the Cabinet urged pastoralist communities to start de-stocking while their animals are in good condition, assuring that the government would help in restocking when the weather situation improves. In a Thursday meeting, the ministers said drought in some counties, including Turkana, Mandera, Garissa, Marsabit and Wajir, has worsened and moved from an alert to alarm stage. To ensure government response to the drought situation is well coordinated, a committee to be chaired by the Interior ministry has been put in place. Its has been charged with putting in place mitigation measures for rest of the year. Also approved during the meeting was the Kenya Investment Policy (KIP) and development of the Mombasa and Naivasha Special Economic Zones. KIP will consolidate fragmented investment-related policies by creating a framework that establishes a strong coordinating mechanism in the country. The policy is guided by seven core principles that emphasise the need for openness and transparency, inclusivity, sustainable development, economic diversification, domestic empowerment, global integration and investor centredness. KIP also addresses private investment at the National and county government levels to ensure a seamless promotion and facilitation process, policy and regulatory coherence. On development of the Mombasa (Dongo Kundu) and Naivasha Special Economic Zones, the key development areas will be undertaken by the government and the private sector in three phases. As part of the Nairobi decongestion initiative, the Cabinet approved Development of Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA)–James Gichuru Expressway project (The Nairobi Expressway Project) as well as the Bus Rapid Transit Line 3 under a Public Private Partnership (PPP). Cabinet further approved Kenya’s participation at the International Horticultural Exhibition 2019 (Expo Beijing 2019). The Expo presents an opportunity for high level engagement to accelerate discussions for more Kenyan fresh produce to access the Chinese market. Some agricultural products, including avocados, have already been granted access to the Chinese market.