Education Cabinet secretary George Magoha yesterday said the rollout of the Competency Based Curriculum (CBC) would continue despite opposition by the teachers union led by secretary general Wilson Sossion. Saying the train had left the station, Magoha vowed that there was no going back on the implementation of the curriculum that will replace the 8-4-4 system. “The CBC train left the station in January and in my life I never have a reverse gear. That message should be taken very clearly. If you have rational and reasonable ideas to contribute, we will incorporate them,” said Magoha who took over the docket from Amina Mohamed last month. Monitor training He was speaking during the launch of the CBC teachers training programme for lower grades at Uhuru Gardens Primary School. Some 91,320 teachers will undergo the training. Magoha said the Ministry would keenly monitor the training of teachers and establish areas where they need more support. He said the ministry was working with the Teachers Service Commission to come up with a clear master plan for the rollout of the CBC in Grade Four. The Kenya National Union of Teachers (Knut) has asked teachers to boycott the training.  Attempts by Knut Kisii branch officials to disrupt training yesterday was thwarted by police. Branch executive secretary Albert Ondimu accused the government of implementing the programme without involving them. Officials arrested In Kakamega, union officials were arrested for disrupting a training session at Shikoti Primary School. Among those arrested were Kakamega branch secretary Tom Ingolo. In Busia, executive secretary Patrick Mulamba was arrested at St Joseph’s Busia girls primary school where he had gone to urge teachers not to attend the training. TSC Secretary Nancy Macharia said the government had fully funded the training and teachers would not be required to meet any costs. She said Treasury had allocated Sh500 million for this month’s training. —Reporting by Irene Githinji, Robert Ochoro, Henry Andanje  and Dickens Wasonga