London, Tuesday When asked how to beat Eliud Kipchoge over marathon distance in the wake of a masterclass in distance running, Mo Farah said quite simply: “Just let him retire.” The Londoner may have produced his second-fastest time for 26.2miles in finishing fifth on Sunday, but Kipchoge stopped the clock with the second-quickest of all time, three minutes up the road from Farah. Prior to the race, the Briton had said it would be a lifetime regret if he was unable to beat Kipchoge at some point over the distance. At present, that looks akin to a mission impossible. For Farah’s coach, Gary Lough, the one possibility for victory for his star athlete is in a championship race. “In this type of race, Kipchoge is head and shoulders above,” he said. “But this is a different kind of race to a championship race. That’s totally different. There’s no pacemakers, there’s the pressure, the conditions out in Tokyo for the Olympics. The marathon there is still very much the goal [for Farah].” Farah’s time of 2hr 5min 39sec yesterday was a disappointment, Lough admitting afterwards a finish in the low 2:03s had been the plan. Any sense that Farah’s performance was down to his week-long dispute with Haile Gebrselassie over an alleged theft while he was staying at the legendary distance runner’s hotel while training in Ethiopia were dismissed by both coach and athlete. As for what lies in store next, Lough said there were a series of “moving parts” to fit into place before mapping out the remainder of 2019. Farah, meanwhile, said: “My brain is all over the place. I am going to have a sit back, go back home and have a chat with my coach and my agent and have a step back. Perhaps to Doha [the World Championships are being held there in October] next. “I think I want to do a marathon. I feel like what I ran today didn’t justify what I did in training.” Farah had previously hinted he planned to return to the track at the World Championships, over 10,000m, although with Kipchoge absent from Qatar, the longer distance seems a more winnable opportunity. However, the Farah camp are adamant there is no urgency to decide over the course of the next week. Next up for Farah is another road run. He has committed to the Vitality London 10km at the end of next month, while the 36-year-old could also make a return to the scene of his first Olympic double at the Anniversary Games in July. A 5,000m is scheduled for the second day of that event and Farah yesterday raised it as a distinct possibility that he could join the line-up in Stratford.As for elite marathon running, there is no doubting Farah can win such events — he showed that in Chicago last year — but it remains doubtful he can do so with Kipchoge in the field. Lough still believes London, a race  in which Farah first competed as  a budding youngster in its mini- marathon, is winnable by his athlete. “Of course, he can definitely win it,” he said. “He’s said how much the race means to him, going back to the mini-marathon days. But it’s not going to come to him, he’s got to work at it.” To get to that point, the pair plan to still use Ethiopia as their training base despite the fall-out with Gebrselassie. Whatever he does there, though, will it ever be enough to claw back the deficit to Kipchoge before the 34-year-old Kenyan’s retirement? For now, Farah is left scratching his head for an answer. Source: Evening Standard