Martin Mwita @MwitaMartin Kenyans have taken the government to task as they seek answers on the 1.5 per cent housing tax. Questions are being asked over management of the funds, guarantee to secure affordable homes and viability of the scheme which they say adds to their tax burden. The Sh10,000 proposed fine on the misuse of the fund has also raised apprehension over government’s commitment to protect the monies, where annual contribution to the National Housing Development Fund could go up to Sh216 billion. The fund is meant to guarantee private developers in affordable houses developed under the Big Four agenda. The government targets to collect between Sh6 billion and Sh18 billion monthly. Many questions remain unanswered amid a stand-off between the government and the Federation of Kenya Employers (FKE), Consumer Federation of Kenya  and Kenya National Union of Teachers (Knut) who have opposed the levy. Employers and the employees are each required to contribute 1.5 per cent of employee’s monthly basic salary, provided total monthly contribution does not exceed Sh5,000. The first contribution is due by May 9, together with other statutory deductions such as Pay As You Earn (PAYE), National Social Security Fund (NSSF) and National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF).Under a hash tag #ResistHousingFundLevy, Kenyans have taken to social media platforms to vent anger while poking holes on the government plan. Among questions being asked is why the levy is being forced on everyone, including those servicing mortgages, already having homes or simply not interested in owning homes through the government scheme. Integrity questions Retirees are also at limbo. Questions have also emerged over management of the funds, which would add up to billions collected under schemes such as the NSSF and NHIF, which are fraught with  misappropriation. “We have a problem because there are integrity questions on how resources are managed in the country,” FKE Executive Director Jacqueline Mugo said. A number of Kenyans also wondered whether this levy is really a priority at this time when the weatherman has said there will be no rains this season,  and the country is facing a nationwide drought that will affect millions of Kenyans. The duration the government has promised to deliver the 500,000 units has also been put to question, with individual contributions deemed too little to help secure a home. The houses are priced at Sh1 million for one bedroom, Sh2 million (2-bedrooms) and Sh3 million for three-bedroomed units. The lowest end will cost Sh600,000. To own a Sh600,000 unit under social housing component, a prospective owner will pay Sh2,845.27 monthly over 25 years, assuming the annual interest is three per cent and no deposit is paid, bringing the total payments to Sh853,580.36. The government expects that the Kenyan Mortgage Refinance Company will avail capital to refinance lenders, who are instead expected to advance mortgages to qualified individuals to acquire the houses. Housing and Urban Development Principal Secretary Charles Hinga told People Daily the plan has succeeded in Singapore, Mexico,Nigeria,Cameroon and China. Kenyans have further questioned the allocation method amid fears it will benefit a few. “How am I even sure I will get a house or refund upon retirement?”, Roy Nyagah, a resident of Roysambu posed. Economist David Ndii asked: “How do you justify forcing a minimum wage tea picker in Kericho or waiter in Kwale to finance middle class housing in Nairobi?” Haki Africa Executive Director Hussein Khalid asked how safe the funds are when misappropriation of public funds is rife at both national and county levels. “Where are the billions already collected from hardworking taxpayers?”, Khalid posed, saying the government should first justify the use of funds under existing schemes. Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua has also questioned the legislation in place. Jail term In a gazette notice dated December 17, 2018, Transport CS James Macharia said a person who misappropriates the Housing Fund faces a two-years jail term, a Sh10,000 fine or both. “Proposed penalty for misappropriation of the housing fund, no doubt encourages misappropriation,” Karua notes. The government has, however, defended the plan, saying it comes with a myriad of benefits. The benefits include increasing the repayment periods by up to 25 years and lowering the interest rates from the current average market rates of 13.5 per cent to between three and seven per cent. “This is not a tax measure but a contributory scheme that is supported by the government and those members who will not be allocated a house will be guaranteed their money back in 15 years or upon retirement,” Hinga said, assuring the public their contributions are safe. During his State of the Nation address, President Uhuru Kenyatta said the government is committed to deliver on its Big Four agenda, which also included Universal Healthcare, Food Security and growth of the manufacturing sectors. “There is no turning back on the obligations we have made in the Big Four Agenda,” Uhuru said. Hinga said Kenyans will also be able to monitor their contributions through Affordable Housing Portal www.bomayangu.go.ke. However, Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi challenged the government to use proceeds  recovered from corruption in providing houses for the poor, “instead of straining the already burdened taxpayer.”