Amos Abuga @PeopleSports11 Kenya Hockey Union (KHU) men’s Premier League champions Butali Sugar Warriors took the Easter Weekend bragging rights after beating archrivals and former champions Kenya Police 2-1 at the City Park on Saturday evening. Warriors opened the scoring deep into the second quarter through Barnabas Odhiambo, a narrow lead they held until the end of the interval. Vincent Odindo’s strike 10 minutes after interval seemed to have salvaged a appoint for Police, but just as it was during the play-offs last December, Warriors scored late on for the victory. The champions moved third on the log with six points from two matches having defeated Chase Sailors 2-0 in their opening match of the season last month, Police on the other hand have a solitary point from two matches having being held 1-1 by Nairobi Simba in their first match also last played last month they occupy ninth place on the log 2016 winners Strathmore University are last on the log with a solitary point from three matches. For the champions seeking their fifth title, the match gave them a huge psychological advantage; it was not only the importance of the three points but how they won it, former Police striker Amos Barkibir returned to haunt his former employer by scoring the all-important goal. The 23-year-old who spent two seasons with the law enforcers is already envisaging winning the title with the champions, two years after winning his first with Police. The former St Anthony Kitale student has no regrets decamping and joining the champions. Opportunity “It is nothing personal, only that I saw an opportunity and grabbed it, at the end of the day it matters which side of your bread is buttered,” the former Western Jaguars player told People Sport. The absence of the forward was evident during the match where the 2017 winners were visibly blunt and wasteful in front of goal to an extent a member of the team was left luring the decision the club has made letting two key players leave without securing able replacements.  Calvin’s Kanu is the other player to have decamped Police for Butalii. “Most of the problems we are facing are self inflicted, with a proper team we ought to have won that match outright, I don’t blame Barry for leaving, I think the team failed him terribly,” said the source. Barkibir was part of the players that joined the Police team on promise of getting employment in the forces, promises that was never fulfilled.