James Magayi Sensational winger Paul Were created his third assist in three starts for AFC Leopards as Ingwe virtually ended Bandari’s title chances with a 2-1 beating at Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos yesterday. “Sense” as he calls himself, was a class above the rest and made a strong case for inclusion into Sebastian Migne’s Africa Cup of Nations squad with terrific pace, guile and awareness that Bandari could not cope with. And curiously, his third assist bore uncanny semblance to the previous two; a long range pass from midfielder David Ochieng to Were who then mesmerised his minder before squaring an assist. Vincent Oburu was the fortunate recipient of the ball yesterday as he gamely slotted into an empty net in the 16th minute with Bandari goalkeeper Faruk Shikalo left for dead by the masterful pull back. Whyvonne Isuza had put away the other two of Were’s assists against Kariobangi Sharks and Posta Rangers. Isuza scored the winner yesterday, profiting from a long sprint in anticipation of a cross from winger Brian Marita with the game tied one-all in the 76th minute. Former Ingwe striker Alex Orotomal had leveled for Bandari in the 57th minute, slamming in Felly Mulumba’s header from Abdallah Hassan’s cross. In the early kick-off at the same venue, second-placed Sofapaka failed to close the gap to leaders Gor Mahia when they ceded control twice to share the spoils with Mathare United. Former Gor Mahia Youth player Cliff Nyakeya twice cancelled Umaru Kasumba’s goals to earn Mathare a point in the tightly-contested game. Kasumba opened the scoreing three minutes into the second half, chesting down a long ball before beating Allan Owing from close range. However, it took just six minutes for Nyakeya to undo his efforts with the leveler after great interplay with Chrispin Oduor. A determined Sofapaka then retook the lead in the 59th minute through the big Ugandan striker who notched his 15th of the season. He timed his run perfectly, beating the offside trap to put away Stephen Waruru’s through ball. This time, the diminutive Nyakeya waited only four minutes before dragging Sofapaka back down with a well-worked goal, firing into the net Oduor’s cut-back. In Kericho, Mount Kenya United put behind their financial woes to win a five-goal thriller over the hosts Zoo FC. After boycotting their previous game against Gor and losing three points, Mount Kenya management used the whole of Saturday trying to convince the players to travel and honour the Kericho fixture. Against many odds they went and conquered Zoo in a 3-2 score line.