Kinyuru Munuhe @kinyurumunuhe Detectives have narrowed down investigations into the Barclays Bank of Kenya Automated Teller Machines (ATMs) theft ring to a technical team and cash loaders, who attended the three installations immediately before the heist was reported. The detectives are also disputing the Sh11.5 million figure given by the bank as the amount lost and believe it could be more. The Banking Fraud Investigation Unit (BFIU) and a team from the Serious Crime Unit believe the theft that included dismantling of security surveillance systems was well coordinated with likely collusion between internal and external players. The officers also believe that money meant for at least two ATMs may not have been loaded into the machines by those assigned to reload them. By yesterday evening, five people had been arrested in connection with the heist. The bank’s technical team assigned to the machines in question, cash loaders and the private security guards at the scenes of crime are now lined up for interrogation at the Directorate of Criminal Investigations headquarters today morning. Receive report Investigators are puzzled by the huge withdrawal of Sh11.5 million, which points to possible manipulation of security safeguards of the cash machine at Kenyatta National Hospital (KNH), Mutindwa in Buruburu, Mater Hospital and at Kenya Cinema within Nairobi Central Business District. But More puzzling is the fact that the alleged theft at Kenya Cinema is yet to be reported at Central Police Station. Central police sub-county police commander Robinson Thuku said they were yet to receive any report about the theft despite the area falling under his jurisdiction. Detectives are also seeking to establish if the alleged amounts were actually loaded in the ATMs before the reported robberies occurred. “The cases are in preliminary stages of investigations. The scope of investigation can be widened but all those involved in ATM operations will be called to help with the probe,” a senior detective said. Scene of Crime police dusted the machines, which remain cordoned off as scenes of crime until investigations are complete The bank management, which insiders intimated is set for rebranding against the backdrop of scandalous incidents in recent weeks, said they are cooperating with investigators and reassured their clients their money is safe. “We recognise that these incidents have raised concerns amongst our customers, colleagues and the general public. I would like to reassure you that our bank is safe and customers can continue trusting us with their money,” a statement by the bank management team read in part. However, bank managers did not confirm if they will sue the G4S security firm in connection with the heist. At KNH ATM, Sh4,315,000 was stolen. It was being manned by a G4S private security guard while Sh6,290,000 was stolen at an unmanned Mutindwa Road ATM. There was no CCTV installed as well. Fake currency At Mater Hospital, the CCTV was found smeared with petroleum jelly to blur image capturing where Sh1million was stolen.  All the ATMs under investigations are manned by G4S  guards. Barclays Bank has recently suffered scandalous incidents, including Sh2 billion alleged fake currency and fake gold discovered by detectives in their safe boxes at Queensway Branch and alleged facilitation of embezzlement of Sh20.5 billion payouts meant for Kimwarer and Arror dams.