Gibo Zachary Western Region beat Lake Region 4-3 on post-match penalties to win the 2019 National Deaf Football in an entertaining final at Moi Stadium Kisumu. Host Lake Region took a narrow 2-1 lead at half time but Western fought back to draw the match 3-3 and send the game into penalty shutout. Golden boot winner Kennedy Kiptoo, Vincent Omondi and Kevin Okoth scored for lakeside boys while Western got their goals through impressive Philip Kirui and a brace from Bob Martins and on penalties, Western converted four penalties to Nyanza’s three to be crowned the championship’s 12th edition champions. Lake region coach David Ogogo conceded defeat saying that it was not the best day in office and will live to fight another day though he was happy to produce the highest number of players to the national team. “We had a few players sick and even our goalkeeper played while unwell but we are okay with number two and congratulations to Western Region for winning the title,” coach David Ogogo told People Sport through tournament interpreter Stephen Ouma. His Western Region counterpart James Wisanza was over the moon for guiding his team to the promised land. “We are excited to win the championship. The boys played with their hearts out after coming behind to level the match 3-3 and held their nerves to emerge champions. It’s a great feeling and we want to go Nigeria and show the rest of the continent and the world at large that deaf too can,” said Western Region winning coach James Wisanza. Dethroned champions Central Region settled for third position after beating Metropolitan 11-10 on penalties after a gruelling third-place playoff tie that ended in goalless draw in regulation time. Enroute to the finals, Lake Region dethroned defending champions Central Region by four goals to three in a scintillating first semifinal. Scoring machine Kennedy Kiptoo grabbed a brace with Kevin Okoth and James Nyabega scoring the other two goals while Central got their consolation goals through Brian Nderitu who scored two and Stephen Mweu. While now champions Western Region outwitted Metropolitan 2-0 in the other semifinal, all thanks to Philip Kirui  and Isaac Shiundu goals.