Diani is well known for its magnificent white sandy beaches and superb weather, but there is one more thing that most people do not know about, just about 46km from the beach is the Shimba Hills National Park, one of the last few remaining tropical rain forests. It is one of the last rain forests in Africa which stretched all the way to Mozambique. As you head to that part of Kwale district, you will notice that the weather is a bit cooler than the hot Diani beach weather that you are used to. One might need to carry a jacket and wear socks, yes, in Diani. So we set off early in the morning to visit the dramatic Shedrick waterfall which is deep down in the heart of the forest. My lodge was about 20 minutes away from the national reserve and after making payments, Salim Matano, our driver, took us for a short game drive around the park. MY first time here, was nearly four years back. There were many animals such as elephants, impalas, waterbucks and there was action. I love game drives because of the action of watching wild animals get caught or just understanding their lifestyle. However, this time around, there was nothing except for one warthog, a marshall eagle and a rat. Our car had a white family, so I would occasionally watch Matano struggling to find anything that would excite them and have memories of Kenya. I noticed this trend even with our game warden as we hiked the forest to head down to the Shedrick waterfalls. He found a chameleon and was busy entertaining some Italian tourists who had never seen a chameleon before. Or had they?  Were they simply pretending to be excited that they saw one? Besides the strange things that tour guides and rangers do to get the attention of white tourists, it was a memorable hike. I say memorable because first I wore the wrong attire and the wrong pair of shoes. I wore a black trouser and with hikes and hot weather, wearing black is like attending your own funeral. You know that you will be roasted. Worse, since I had only travelled with my black leather shoes and sandals, they were the only available closed shoes that I had. Hiking was soon torturous for me. Luckily, KWS had carried out renovations in most of the parks in Kenya, thus the tough and slippery hills have been replaced by easy-to-walk-on stairs. Phew! This has drastically shortened the journey, which hitherto took an hour down, now it is a mere 20 minutes to the fall. The sad thing about all this is the fact that human activities are slowly depleting this wonderful forest to small clusters of trees. Something, unfortunately, that is happening all over the world. That is what is causing the animals to leave. Another thing is the human-animal conflict that resulted in many elephants being translocated to the Tsavo.  There is also a rare species of sable antelope found in this national park only. We did not see it, which was a great disappointment to me as I was looking forward to capturing it on camera. Eventually, we reached the falls and found many school children having a great time there. Their noise could be heard from afar. This magnificent waterfall is around 25 metres high and, as I later learnt, during the rainy season, only one waterfall will be seen and it splits into two when the weather is warmer and the volume of water lower. I did not have time to check all that as all I desired was to let the waters flow and heal me from the fatigue of the hike.  The waterfall was named after a renowned explorer, David Sheldrick, who discovered it many years ago and guided tours are provided at 10 am and 2 pm daily.