James Magayi @magayijim Multiple world track champion Mo Farah and Eliud Kipchoge will slug it out in United Kingdom in 10 days as the pursuit for Abbott World Marathon Majors Series XII crown enters its final stretch. The Virgin Money London Marathon has attracted some of the biggest names in road running with world record holder Kipchoge and Farah gunning for the ultimate prize of Sh500 million while other stellar runners hope to get an edge in the bigger contest. Kipchoge and Farah have 25 points to their names with the former having triumphed in Berlin last year in a world record time of 2:01:39 while the latter notched his first victory over 42km distance in Chicago. The race for ultimate glory is crowded as three other athletes on 25 points with Berlin still calling in September and the IAAF World Championships in Doha as well. Lelisa Desisa (New York), Birhanu Legese (Tokyo) and Lawrence Cherono (Boston) all occupy a joint first place on the leader board with 25 points alongside Farah and Kipchoge. Victory for Kipchoge in London will almost certainly guarantee the record holder another World Marathon Majors diadem in his already glittering list of accolades. In London, Farah and Kipchoge headline the cast but an array of world-beaters will give them a run for their money. Farah finally won his first marathon race in Chicago last year and would want to replicate such a feat on home soil. The industrious former track star holds a personal best time of 2:05:11 and is only the eighth fastest in this year’s London field but never discount the Somali-born athlete. Confidence His previous attempts at marathon at home have ended disastrously but with the confidence of notching a win in the Majors perhaps it is time for his homecoming. Kipchoge on the other hand is the top seed courtesy of his world record run in Berlin. Kipchoge possesses the personal drive to claim a fourth London title having won in 2015, 2016 and 2018. The duo will have to contend with 2017 winner Daniel Wanjiru who is returning with a vengeance having faltered in his second try while former record holder Wilson Kipsang will have another stab at glory. Kipsang has often come close in recent races only to lose out in late stages but has the second fastest time of 2:03:13. A quintet of Ethiopian runners Mosinet Geremew (2:04:00), Leule Gebreselassie (2:04:02), Tamirat Tola (2:04:06), Mule Wasihun (2:04:37) and Tola Kitata (2:04:49) pose a great threat to the leading lights.