Two teams will this Saturday advance to Kenya Cup semi-finals off as the quarter-finals get underway.Kenya Harlequins host Impala in the weekend’s highlight match, in a Ngong Road Derby at RFUEA in Nairobi whilst Mwamba take a trip to Nakuru County to seek an away semi-finals pairing with direct semi-finalists Kabras past the hosts. Patrice Agunda will skipper favourites Harlequins at RFUEA Grounds against Impala Saracens in an unpredictable last season’s repeat quarters match that was bagged by Impala for the honours to play the Bankers who will coincidentally be the winners’ next incoming opponent. Harlequins head coach Charles Cardovillis featured in last season’s Cup finals as Kabras tactician and will today hope to steer Quins on his return as the boss assisted by former Shujaa head coach Benjamin Ayimba to make headlines with a double over the Sarries.  Quins won their most recent meeting leading 27-0 at half time to win it 37-24 at the Impala Club on January 26. Big rival “We are not looking back at previous results, we know Impala is going to come hard as a big rival on the pitch and good friends off the pitch. The team that will play rugby for eighty minutes will win it and we are actually looking forward to it. We have prepared very well and I have faith in the squad that will represent the club,” said Charles Cardovillis in an exclusive interview with People Sports. The Sarries boss on the other end believes they will make a repeat cup semi-final appearance thanks to a revamp in their playing systems that is this time composed of a good number of changes from their last meeting as part of their formula aimed at upsetting the hosts to re-live last seasons repeat cup semi-finals against defending champions, KCB after knocking out Harlequins 34-18 in the quarters. “The match has nothing to do with past results but about who gives a 100 per cent, who makes costly errors and who will force the opponent to make errors,” said Impala forwards coach Frank Ndong. Meanwhile Stanbic Mwamba will today take their hunt to Nakuru at the Nakuru Athletic Club in search of a date with Kabras in the away semis clash slated for May 11 in Kakamega as KCB in Nairobi lie in wait of the winner from today’s Ngong Road derby between Harlequins and Impala. Victory Nakuru led by head coach Mitch Ochollah will not be an easy opponent for Mwamba bearing the favourites tag owing to their recent 29-15 victory over the visitors at the same venue on February 23. Kulabu will be captained by hooker Salaton Muturi in an experienced squad highlighted by siblings Collins Injera at inside centre and Michael Agevi as the day’s winger while fellow Kenyan international Daniel Taabu will come in from the bench to sustain their open play attack.