Consumers have been warned to prepare for more hard times as supply of fresh and dry commodities decline and steep food prices continue to erode purchasing power and the standard of living. Agricultural value chain players predict a gloomy situation in coming months with maize flour prices likely to go up to even more than the prices experienced in the country around the same period in 2017. Although the government has maintained that the country has enough maize stocks that can sustain consumers up to July, the players in the industry warn that the delayed rains, prolonged drought and skyrocketing prices of available food continues to erode consumers’ buying ability. Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri is on record saying the country has 21.3 million bags of maize held by farmers, traders, millers and processors and National Cereal and Produce Board. “Farmers have in their stores Sh13 million of 90kgs, 3.3 million held by traders, millers and processors have 680,588 bags and 4.3 million is in NCPB,” he said about two weeks ago. Consumption per month, he said, stands at 4.2 million bags of 90kgs in addition to other alternative uses such as livestock feeds and other industrial products. In open air markets within Nairobi and its environs some commodities, especially, fresh produce –peas, carrots, cabbages, tomatoes, sukuma wiki and dania are becoming very expensive and in low supply. Cabbages are going for between Sh80 and Sh100 while one tomato costs between Sh10 and Sh15. Two weeks A spot check in the local open air markets and supermarkets, reveals that food prices have increased by more than 10 per cent in the last two weeks. For example, two weeks ago, a 2kg maize flour packet in some retail outlets was trading at between Sh90 and Sh95.  Two days later, millers adjusted the price by more than 20 per cent.  Currently, a 2kg maize flour packet in supermarkets maize flour retails at between Sh117 and Sh120 while the same is higher in estates and urban centres in the counties. A spot check by People Daily in supermarkets found that major flour brands namely; Jogoo retails at Sh117, Soko at Sh118, Pembe goes for Sh119 while Jimbi trades at Sh120 for the 2-kg packet. The current price accounts for a 34 per cent increase compared to between Sh85 and Sh90 in February this year.  By then the country was experiencing high supply of maize following a bumper harvest of 46.1 million bags in 2018. United Grain Millers Association last week warned that by end of this month, maize flour prices are likely to hit more than Sh130 for a 2kg packet as supply continue to decrease. Chairman Peter Kuguru cautioned that the country is experiencing maize shortage, saying that farmers declined to sell their produce to the government and instead are selling to traders and dealers who are later exporting the same into some segments of the regional market. For example, some of these traders are said to export maize to South Sudan where a 90kg bag is trading at more than Sh6,000 compared to between Sh2, 700 and Sh3, 500 locally. “We are operating below capacity in our mills and if the situation continues like this, some of us will close down and thus result to more challenges. Government needs to reach out to all the stakeholders to devise ways to boost supply in the local market,” Kuguru said in a phone interview. The low supply of food in the market has started triggering high inflation rate, an indication that consumers have to adjust their daily budgets. Inflation – the rate at which prices increase over time, resulting in a fall in the purchasing value of money – has increased by 2.6 per cent in the last two months, a situation blamed to the ongoing dry spell and low supply of food in the country. Inflation rate March inflation rose to 4.35 per cent from to 4.14 per cent a month earlier, due to rising food prices. The inflation rate increased to 3.95 percent year-on-year in May 2018, quickening from 3.73 percent in April. In May 2017, due to high food prices and then continued prolonged drought, inflation rate increased to a peak of 11.7 per cent from 11.48 per cent in the prior month.  The other time the country had experienced such high inflation rates was in 2012 following a prolonged dry spell.