Zaddock Angira @PeopleDailyKe Thugs broke into Kamorwon Administration Police post in Nandi South on Tuesday night and stole three G3 rifles and 60 rounds of ammunition. Rift Valley regional police commander Edward Mwamburi yesterday said investigations had been launched to recover the firearms and arrest the suspects but by yesterday evening, no arrests nor recoveries had been made. Preliminary investigations point to negligence as the officers are said to have left the police post unmanned to watch a UEFA Champions League match between Barcelona and Manchester United, at Chepturo trading centre, near Kaimosi Teachers College. Firearms stolen Officer incharge of the post, Corporal Rodgers Masiwa and two other officers, had left the station at around 9.30pm and returned shortly after midnight. He reported that when he returned,  he noticed that the room, which he uses both as his residence and armoury, had been broken into. Strong boxes On checking, Masiwa said, they realised that the steel box in which the firearms are kept had been broken into and three firearms stolen. The serial numbers of the firearms have been given as FMP77095029, FMP7705029 and A3F91879. The thugs left two magazines and 37 rounds of ammunition. Mwamburi, however, said no officer had been arrested in connection with the incident. Police regulations require that when firearms are not in physical possession of a police officer, they should be kept in the armoury or in unbreakable and unmovable strong boxes. The regulations also say the firearms can only be stored at stations or posts where officers are constantly on duty or on guard. However, whenever it is not possible to securely store such arms, they should remain in physical possession of the officers, or special security arrangements can be made by a senior officer available. Meanwhile, Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA) was yesterday temporarily closed after a commotion on a KQ flight headed for Johannesburg,which led to the detention of a passenger over a false bomb alarm. The passenger was taken into police custody for allegedly raising a false alarm in the plane that forced the flight to abort takeoff. Police said commotion began after an argument between the passenger and a flight attendant. It is alleged that the passenger mentioned the word ‘bomb’ during the argument, causing a scare in the plane, which was taxing ready for takeoff. Normal operations This forced the pilot to abort takeoff as the man was arrested and handed over to police for interrogation. This forced the airport to be closed temporarily as police conducted a search that lasted the better part of the afternoon.  Many affected passengers took to social media to air their disappointment over the delays. Scores of landing flights were diverted to other airports. Kenya Airways, in a statement, confirmed the incident which they termed as an “unfortunate bomb scare”. Kenya Airports Authority later announced that normal operations had resumed.