Manchester, Sunday Ninety minutes were not enough to separate the two sides as Manchester United and Chelsea played to a 1-1 draw at Old Trafford on Sunday. The hosts opened the match the brighter of the two sides, scoring after 11 minutes and showing real attacking intent, but they were pegged back just before half-time through Alonso’s close-range finish after De Gea made a mess of Rudiger’s long-distance strike. United pushed forward in the second half, looking to take the three points which would see them go level with their opponents in the table, but not even seven additional minutes were enough to help the Red Devils in their quest for a 20th league win of the season. Sergio Aguero’s 20th Premier League goal of the season left Manchester City just two wins from the title after a hard-fought 1-0 victory over Burnley at Turf Moor on Sunday. Aguero, who has now scored nine times in his past eight appearances against Burnley, struck in the 63rd minute, with a shot that only just crossed the line despite the best efforts of defender Matt Lowton to keep it out, although goal-line technology was needed to award the goal. The win takes City on to 92 points, one ahead of Liverpool, with two games to play. Victories at home to Leicester a week on Monday, and away at Brighton the following Sunday will see Pep Guardiola’s side retain their English title. For the first time in months, City’s elimination from the Champions League means they will crucially have a free midweek to prepare for those key matches. By contrast, Liverpool must travel to Newcastle next weekend, either side of the two legs of their Champions League semi-final against Barcelona, before hosting Wolves on May 12. Elsewhere, Arsenal manager Unai Emery insisted he was “proud” of his players after they were humbled for the third time in a week, losing 3-0 at Leicester on Sunday. – AFP The Gunners conceded three goals in three successive top-flight matches for the first time since 1967 in defeats to Crystal Palace, Wolves and Leicester leaving their top-four hopes hanging by a thread. Nevertheless, Emery praised his players for performing well despite the embarrassing nature of the goals. He blamed the first-half red card shown to defender Ainsley Maitland-Niles for the latest loss. Maitland-Niles was booked for a shove on Ben Chilwell before collecting a second yellow card for a foul on James Maddison at the King Power Stadium. -AFP