Hillary Mageka @hillarymageka Senators and MCAs were left a dejected lot yesterday after Deputy President William Ruto, who was to be the guest of honour, gave the fourth Annual Legislative Summit in Kisumu a wide berth. Devolution Cabinet secretary Eugene Wamalwa excused the DP, saying just like President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga who skipped the event, Ruto was engaged in some pressing national issues. “Many of you are unhappy that our national leaders are not here but the truth of the matter is that this summit coincided with a number of crucial national meetings,” Wamalwa told a disappointed audience at Royal Swiss Hotel. Ruto was to officially close the summit that brought together senators and ward representatives. MCAs said they were eager to listen to the Deputy President on their renewed push for financial autonomy and better terms of service to include a pension scheme for those who complete two terms in service as is the case with MPs. The MCAs also want car grants as opposed to the current system where they are given car loans. Car grants This is after they received a major backing from various key speakers at the summit who said financial independence would strengthen their oversight role in counties. Wamalwa spoke on aligning existing policies and legislation to achieve the Big Four agenda. He said the county governments have a bigger role to play on formulation of policies on the realisation of manufacturing, affordable housing and universal healthcare and food security. The CS urged county assemblies to work together with the National government by formulating policies on disaster management. On Monday, Uhuru, who was expected to give a keynote address, award national honours to county assembly speakers and launch the global champion for youth agenda, did not show up. On Tuesday, Raila, who was scheduled to give his speech at 4pm, did not also turn up It, however, remained unclear why Uhuru, Raila and Ruto skipped the conference meant to assess the progress of devolution. More than 4,000 delegates attended the summit.