Zaddock Angira @PeopleDailyKe Forty days ago, today, lawyer Assa Kibagendi Nyakundi reported to police that he had accidentally shot and killed his 29-year-old son Joseph Nyakundi at their Muthaiga home in Nairobi. Soon after, the lawyer was rushed to the Nairobi Hospital where he was admitted allegedly suffering from what was said to be high blood pressure complications. But in a confounding departure from structured and predictable processes that follow serious crime, Nyakundi has intriguingly remained at the high-end hospital for six weeks without charges being brought against him. After he reported the shooting, investigations, including scene of crime visit, were launched but detectives and forensic analysts rebutted his story, instead revealing that the shooting took place in Parklands area, not in Muthaiga. A few days later and with the lawyer still holed up in hospital, an investigating officer raised concern that being an influential person of high standing in society Nyakundi was likely “to interfere with the ongoing investigations to his advantage”. Ordinarily, nothing prevents the police from charging a suspect in court and taking him back to hospital for treatment. But that does not appear to have been considered in Nyakundi’s case. Instead the lawyer appeared to be subject to different criminal procedure and a legal orbit with himself having a handle at the levers. This week, on Wednesday night at around 11.45pm, Nyakundi was finally discharged from the Nairobi Hospital and driven to Muthaiga police station. Yesterday at around 10.30am, two detectives picked him up and took him to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) headquarters in what was said to be further interrogation and processing, before he was taken to Makadara Law Courts at around 2pm. When he finally appeared in court, detectives requested for an extra day to finalise investigations, including the crime scene visit even as the new investigating officer Sergeant Oliver Mabuone, who has taken over from Constable Godfrey Munene, told the court that Nyakundi could be charged with a lesser charge of manslaughter. Before the case started, the defence team comprising lawyers Ken Nyaundi, Cliff Ombeta, Sam Nyaberi, Ken Bosire and Charles Nyakwana applied for bail, saying there were no compelling reasons to deny him the same as he was an officer of the court. Equal before law Chief Magistrate Heston Nyaga, however, said it was premature to apply for bail, adding that the matter had generated great public interest, adding that everybody was equal before the law. It was, however, not clear why police were contemplating the lesser charge of manslaughter in a case where initial reports indicated the son could have been intentionally shot in the chest, leading to his death. Knowledge that an act may cause death or serious harm proves malice aforethought which is a key ingredient in proving murder. This malice aforethought is also what distinguishes murder from manslaughter. Police have tended to justify the request of such orders, claiming that investigating murder is a complex and time-consuming exercise that may also involve several agencies and organisations. Ironically, in a recent case, where Naftali Kinuthia was nearly lynched by members of the public who had linked him to the brutal murder the Moi University medical student Ivy Wangechi, the suspect was removed from the hospital and charged in court within a week. Another issue that had immediately raised the red flag in the Nyakundi case was a Facebook post by Nyakundi’s other son, shortly after the fatal shooting. Noah Onsomu Nyakundi termed the killing a “brutal cold-blooded murder”. However, about 20 minutes later, he edited the post to “Good bye my one and only brother.” The son, the mother, and another woman are among witnesses who have recorded statements with the police. Nyakundi could not explain why he reported that he had accidentally shot his son in Muthaiga while police say that could not have been the scene of crime. A CCTV footage from the police Integrated Command, Control and Communication (IC3) centre at Jogoo House, captured Nyakundi’s car – a Toyota Axio registration number KCE 753B – at the Museum Hill overpass at 12.50pm. It was captured on  Uhuru highway, with the son seated on the left rear seat. The vehicle is seen diverting to Wambugu Lane at the intersection of Parklands Road near Nairobi Law Campus to join Limuru Road and finally arrived at the Aga Khan hospital at exactly 1.21pm with the son already dead. It is suspected that Nyakundi had either stopped somewhere, or opted to drive around Parklands since being a Sunday and without significant traffic snarl ups, it could not have taken him about 30 minutes from Museum Hill to the Aga Khan hospital. Conclude probe Most of the investigations had been finalised and the accused could be taken to court.  However, on March 20, police requested for 14 days to conclude investigations, citing the suspect’s condition and their inability to extract a statement but the magistrate declined to grant the orders and asked the investigating officer to serve the lawyer with the application. “The court cannot give orders for detention in the absence of the suspect. He needs to be served with the application so that he is made aware of it,” the magistrate ruled. Homicide detectives would later on April 3, go to Makadara Law courts and inform the magistrate that they had not recorded the accused’s statement. Makadara Senior Principal Magistrate Angelo Kithinji directed Constable Munene to record the lawyer’s statement and report back to the court on April 15, and that the suspect be charged immediately he was discharged from the hospital. Nyakundi later recorded his statement but insisted that he was unwell, and continued being in the hospital. Earlier, Chief Government Pathologist Dr Johansen Oduor had conducted the post-mortem lasting three hours, while accompanied by detectives from the DCI’s homicide department, ballistic experts, and forensic analysts. Oduor’s findings stated that, the deceased had a perforating wound where the bullet passed right through the body and hit the left rear seat of the car. He concluded he had been shot at very close range. Oduor formed the opinion that the cause of death was “chest injuries and haemorrhage due to gunshot from a low velocity firearm”. Detectives have lined up exhibits including the autopsy report, the ballistic examination report, the pistol, bullet heads, spent cartridges, the accused motor vehicle, clothing, mobile phones, and DNA samples.