A picture is worth a thousand words, so goes the saying. Capturing the beauty of a moment is an underrated skill in life. It takes talent and instinct to not only be aware of, but capture fine details that may turn into special artefact in form of an image. Many times, these opportunities may fly pastpeople’s heads, but snappers are gifted with a ‘sixth sense’ to notice visual elements in any setting, claustrophobic or not. “Photography in Kenya has improved over the years. With artists such as Brenon Ooro (Breston Kenya) and Ojwok Photogaphy, you can feel the deep artistic authenticity when you look at their work,” fashion model Clint Malik tells Spice. Arguably underrated as a form of expression of feelings and thoughts, photography is rapidly changing the perception of Kenya and taking the global scene by storm. Developing images that evoke emotions into memorabilia is a complex and advanced ability that takes long to develop. This is a challenge Kenya’s photographers have taken in their stride; they are honing their prowess into profound mastery that has made them the most sought after for visual storytellers globally. “I have been in photography for six years; three years as a hobby and three years as a professional. Personally, I am a portrait and editorial photographer just because I believe there is a high communication level in how people pose for a photograph,” says Nairobi-based lens master Mark Mutura. The trendsetters Osborne Macharia, a Nairobi youth born and bred, who has proven to be a blessing to the city’s arts and cultural scene. He has handled major brand campaigns’ images such as Absolut Vodka South Africa to responsibly shooting calendar photos for Kenya Airways. His most marquee moment to date is shooting for American producer Metro Boomin’s promotional cover shoots for the musician’s Not All Heroes Wear Capes debut album last year. The album has achieved critical commercial acclaim, going Gold in the United States —sold more than 500,000 copies in US alone. The images that went viral online further intensified Macharia’s flair on one of the best snappers worldwide with unicorn companies such as Universal Music Group swarming around him to get a piece of him. His artwork has been featured by many brands such as Marie Claire, Vogue, Coke, Afro Punk and BBC. He was commissioned to create original artwork for the film Black Panther and the US television drama Queen Sugar. “One of the best experiences I’ve had in my life has to be the Air Gikosh project put together last year by Osborne Macharia. I have never attended a show like that. It was organised so well and almost felt personal. The vibe was enormous, the creativity and the idealism that was imparted was nothing short of inspiring,” says art enthusiast, Tiffany Wambui. When it comes to the art of turning nothings into something, Mutua Matheka aka Truth Slinger is on top of the game. Known to share his work via his Twitter page, his simple gesture of hooking up followers with mobile wallpapers from his labour displays the true traits of an artist. Single-handedly popularising the landscape photography trend through his personal escapades, he is one of the pristine artists from Nairobi capturing personal experiences and turning them into trove of rare works of art. Photography culture Matheka’s signature style of mirroring Nairobi street life from aerial angles mostly bringing out the city’s architectural fascination during odd hours along with superb tones on his final products have been some of the most breathtaking scenery ever depicted by a Nairobi artisan. Gathering cultic followings online for his eye-catching documentations, Truth Slinger is ridiculously versatile in food, portrait, architectural and nature photography. Through a mentor from Germany where he was for an internship five years ago, he has never looked back. In an era when mobile phones pack some powerful cameras, it is easy to be swayed from a real purpose of being an artist through the lens into make-believe that almost anyone can be a visual storyteller. Fashion and portrait photography have easily surged into Kenya’s backbone export of culture. The respective industries are creating narratives that are selling Kenya to the world and this is being well curated by individuals such as Cedric Nzaka, Brenon Ooro, Maganga Mwagogo, Magati Maosa, Connie Wanjiru, Rogers Ouma (Ojwok Photography), Brian Mwando, Brian Gathu, Mark Mutura, Gatehi Mwaniki and Shitanda, among others. These lens masters have synonymous prowess in using human beings as their muse, exploiting individual’s choices in style and backdrops. Famous models such as Clint Malik have managed to land on international publications such as Vogue because of their creativity and direction. Their virtuosity create moments in time using model’s body postures and captivating characters has elevated the fashion and photography cultures to areas beyond national precincts. “Working with international names such as Cedric just reassures my destiny as a model and the sky is the limit. I believe to be the best you have to work with the best,” says model Dennise Wattimah. For Khalid Ramirez, automobile photography is in his forte. This is another alternative genre in photography. The hungry custodian is an imaginative shutterbug, who goes into the field ready to take his best shot in anything that has an engine. Combined with extraterrestrial effects to his edited images, he has found a niche hence building a broad and loyal fan base. Celebrity touch Celebrities often require a pinch of attention to survive in their careers. In this department, the professionalism on the ball displayed by Buoart Photography founder Kev Buo, Shem Obara and Kevin Kemama. Buo has been able to uplift images of many models in the industry who can confidently boast independence just by the power of working with the visionary photographer. Rapper Octopizzo is miles ahead of contemporaries in the industry courtesy of letting Buo handle his template. The Noma Ni hit rapper has one of the most marketable Instagram pages worthy of a shout out among other top entertainers in Kenya, thanks to Buo’s master clicks. Kenya’s art scene has been exploding rapidly over the years in various angles. With a rise in the number of photographers, the future looks as Kenyan as ever. Diversity and drive have engineered the industry to unforeseen horizons. Leaps of faith have been taken, and there is no telling what’s next for the next generation of Kenyan visual orchestrators with this breed already leading the way with their tremendous yet under-praised strides. The work speaks for itself and Kenyan photography is supplying a much-needed edgy feel into the way stories are being told and eyes of the shooters. Let’s click on…