After a mixture of good food, snorkelling, beach walks and pina colada cocktails at Hemingways Watamu Resort, our writer dares to dream of dinner parties on the outcrops in the ocean Njeri Maina @njerimainar I love sunrises. They are life affirming. To me, they represent a new chance to experience life, mess up, build, demolish the cracks and mould everything afresh. That all sunrises are as beautiful as the promise they hold is just an added boon. I get slightly emotional when I experience sunrises, as happened recently when I awoke with the curtains wide open and a view of the rising sun at the Coast in all its fiery hues in the horizon. I was in my room at Hemingways Watamu in the North Coast, and I could not be happier anywhere else. Unless of course, it is at the dining table, with steaming green tea, marine installations on one wall and a surreal ocean vista on the other. Bedside roses Hemingways does their food the same way they do everything else— quality, with nothing left to chance.  This is why I am thinking of breakfast. If yesterday’s juicy beef burger and green salad is anything to go by, I cannot wait for the early day’s fare. I huddle in my blankets though, sniff the fresh bunch of six roses next to my bed, and commune with the sunrise till it is no longer the spellbinding work of art at dawn. Breakfast here, like all meals, is a feast fit for royals. With the dishes prepared and served in such large portions, I almost always have to be dragged from the dining table. Alternatively, I have to be lured, in carrot-before-horse fashion, for a craft cocktail at the bar side. I devour mushrooms and crepes, some fruits and juice, then a bowl of muesli. As we get ready to head out to Watamu Marine National Park soon after breakfast for snorkelling lessons, I worry if I have eaten too much as to be unable to participate.   Nonetheless, I grab another pancake with syrup maybe to help me worry less and probably decide which side of the too- full-line I am on. Barefoot stroll It is a short walk from the breakfast table to the shore and the waiting boat. There is a lookout guard who I hope does not recognise me and my friend in the light of day. The prior night, Raquelle, a friend and rival journalist, and I had gone for a barefoot beach stroll, enjoying the feel of sand between our toes, wind in our hair and hilarious stories. It was all fun and laughs until we spotted some crabs. The lookout guard almost had to carry us back to the hotel as we were convinced they wanted to make a meal out of us. Besides, which idiot walks sideways? The head is supposed to give a general direction of where a living thing is heading, but not the crab. We board the boat free from last night’s crab threats and proceed to the Kenya Wildlife Service (KWS) office to buy marine park entrance tickets.  A hotel staff member had gone ahead to finalise arrangements so we can proceed to view dolphins and to snorkel. The coral reef is beautiful this morning, with myriads of fish that we cannot possibly name. We snorkel with the fish for hours, drink probably half of the Indian Ocean waters in the process then head back to the hotel hungry— again— for lunch. Beach sundowners I order a squid starters, rice and calamari for the main course. You cannot go to Malindi and not order fresh seafood. I, however, have to confess that I had tried their pasta the previous day at dinner and I positively waxed sumptuous. This time I try my hand at the crab cakes dipped in tartar sauce with unprecedented relish and a tinge of pettiness. I down it all with a cool glass of pina colada. I am on holiday and so decide these cocktails are not as potent as they are beautiful. Now, dreaming a bit, I think we should have dinner on the huge rock outcrop in the ocean.  It would be such an amazing set up for a sundowner, provided there are no crabs and one does not take one-too-many piña coladas. Oh, wait, Hemingways does actually hold sundowners there. I need another piña colada and some more food to help me think more clearly…