Seth Onyango @SethManex Kenya’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew by 6.3 per cent in 2018, up from 4.7 per cent in the politically tumultuous 2017. The 1.6 per cent jump in growth leveraged on agriculture value addition, accelerated manufacturing activities, better business sentiments and a calmer political scene, according to Economic Survey 2019. Better performance of the Agriculture sector, attributed to sufficient rains well-spread throughout the country also contributed to the growth. Rainfall Increased rainfall also contributed to cheaper electricity which lowered the cost of living and that of manufacturing. The survey says the manufacturing sector expanded by 4.2 per cent compared to a revised growth of 0.5 per cent in 2017 mainly buoyed by increased agro-processing. Other sectors that experienced notable growth in 2018 include electricity supply (10.5 per cent), transportation and storage (8.8 per cent), information and communication technology (11.4 per cent), and accommodation and food services at (16.6 per cent). The growth, however, failed to make an impact among members of the public, most of who say they have not felt it because the cost of living remains high. Not felt Questions also abound on why the seemingly stable economic performance Kenya has had over the years does not reflect on the wealth of most citizens. According to Kenya National Bureau of Statistics, three-quarters of all Kenyans in the formal sector earn below Sh50,000 representing 1.9 million people as of 2017. This includes those at the bottom wage bracket – earning below Sh20,000 a month, mainly constituting house servants, drivers, secretaries and low-ranking teachers and police officers. The earnings, compounded by inflation which has averaged 9.61 per cent since 2005, could inform the scepticism towards reported economic growth. Experts say the genuine progress indicator (GPI) was created to make up for the gap. That although the GPI and GDP calculations are based on the same personal consumption data, the former provides adjustment factors, with variables that apply to monetary values to non-monetary aspects of the economy. That the use of GDP per capita as a measure of quality of life represents the error of mistaking a growing economy as an end in itself rather than as a means of improving quality of life. Institute of Economic Affairs (IEA) programmes coordinator John Mutua said the economy should grow at eight per cent or double digits for the trickle-down effect to be felt. Informal sector “This growth has to be sustained for five consecutive years…targeting foreign direct investment that offer labour intensive jobs,” he said. The 2019 Economic Survey shows the number of Kenyans engaging outside small-scale agriculture and pastoralist activities rising from 16.9 million in 2017 to 17.8 million in 2018. This represents a 5.0 per cent growth, implying that the economy generated an extra 840,600 jobs in 2018. In the formal sector, total employment increased from 2.8 million people in 2017 to 2.9 million in 2018. Jobs in the informal sector which constituted 83.6 per cent of total employment grew 5.4 per cent to 14.9 million people, with the number of self-employed and unpaid family workers within the formal sector estimated to have increased from 139,400 in 2017 to 152,200 in 2018. Mutua argues that most of the jobs are not decent and offer poor wages hence little is pumped into the economy. He posits the most obvious explanation would be if all the benefits of growth were captured by the rich, resulting in ever-increasing inequality. “This is coupled with income inequality where most the wealth is concentrated in the hands of the rich or specific sectors,” he said. “Take it as a mean score where you have the top ten students contributing to the overall mean score when the rest of the students have failed,” he explained. Inequality Mutua argues that where inequality is high, it is to be expected that economic growth delivers less poverty reduction, since the absolute increases in income associated with rising average incomes will be that much smaller for the have-nots versus the haves. Additionally, he says plunder of public funds has a direct effect on the lack of the trickle-down effect of economic growth, a position shared by economist John Kirimi of Sterling Investment. Kirimi blames endemic corruption for the economic woes that Kenyans find themselves in. “You have a situation where the high net individuals are spending cash in conspicuous consumption such posh cars and holidays which don’t help the economy,” he said. He noted the exports that benefit the poor have not been performing well, thus leaving most Kenyans impoverished.