Fred Aminga @faminga Kenyans with a non-performing loan at Higher Education Loans Board (HELB) have been put on notice with the agency giving defaulters 30 days notice to start paying or risk negative listing with the three local credit reference bureaus (CRBs). This will amount to a lower credit score limiting the beneficiaries’ access to credit facilities and setting the stage for their listing as defaulters. Any borrower from a bank, Sacco, micro-finance institution or mobile money services is consumer of credit and the law requires that lenders provide information about all their credit customers through CRBs licensed by the Central Bank of Kenya. A default listing is retained on CRB data base for five years from the last date of payment after applying for clearance certificate from the bureaus. Customer data Depending on the institution, policy updates on a loan can be done 24 hours, 48 hours, end of every week or monthly. CRB regulations require that customer data is submitted to the bureau at least once a month. This data is submitted to all licensed bureaus by the 10th of every month. It takes five days to load the data after the submission. About 67,093 former university students owe Helb Sh6.5 billion in non-performing loans, and only 156,198 accounts valued at Sh24.2 billion are repaying the credit. Just like banks, Helb beneficiaries are listed either positively or negatively, depending on compliance to the agency’s repayment schedule. “One receives positive listing if they are compliant or have fully repaid their loans. This improves their credit score thus unlocking favourable credit,” said Helb in a statement putting defaulters. To date, more than two million people have been negatively listed by the three CRBs making it difficult to access credit facilities countrywide. Helb’s initiative intends to boost the agency’s purse with the government requiring about Sh12 billion to admit all students who qualified to universities and technical training colleges this year after the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE). Technical institutions A further Sh8.5 billion will be needed for 121,000 students set to join technical  and vocational education and training (TVET) institutions after scoring between C plain and C– in last year’s KCSE exam. The Ministry of Education is reviewing the higher education financing policy to make it sustainable after the former Cabinet secretary Amina Mohammed announced that the government was looking for more resources to enhance TVET institutions.