Gaspo Youth remain the only unbeaten side in Football Kenya Federation’s Women’s Premier League (WPL) after recording nine wins in as many games so far. The Kiambu-based side’s  latest victory is a 1-0 defeat of Mathare last Saturday which places them third on the log with 27 points, three shy of leaders and defending champions Vihiga Queens, who have played two more matches. Vihiga’s unbeaten run was put to an end on Sunday by arch rivals Thika Queens who beat them a 2-1. This was the holders’ 11th match of the season and a win would have stretched their lead to six points from second-placed Trans Nzoia Falcons but it was never to be. Thika were handed their victory, their seventh this season in 10 matches, courtesy of goals from Fauzia Omar and Rachel Muema while Vihiga’s consolation goal was scored by Terry Engesha. “The competition in the league is stiff and we are no longer witnessing the big point gaps like in previous seasons. Breaking a team’s unbeaten run is not easy but my players gave their all for this win. We had committed to ensuring we bag maximum points and I am happy we held on for that,” said Thika Queens coach Benta Achieng. Her opposite number Alex Alumira was gracious in defeat. “We did not deserve to win. We did not play well, we were totally off colour. This is the worst display we have had this season. We were not stringing passes together and were second best. My players were also slow and we have to work on our pace going forward,” said Alumira. Thika’s win takes their points tally to 21 and fifth on the log, having lost three matches to put their title campaign in a difficult situation. Vihiga and Falcons have lost one while Gaspo are yet to a drop point. Meanwhile, Kisumu All Starlets, who drew 1-1 in midweek, got back to winning ways, thrashing struggling Spedag 10-0. Mercy Airo was a thorn in Spedag’s flash as she scored six while Bertha Omita grabbed a hat-trick. The 10th goal was scored by Vivian Wanjiru. The win places Kisumu fourth on the standings at 22 points from seven wins and one draw in nine matches.