Mercy Mwai @wangumarci Members of the National Assembly want investigative agencies to probe and prosecute government agencies who misappropriated funds allocated to their respective ministries. The legislators want Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) and Director of Criminal Investigations to commence investigation on all the accounting officers who foresaw the loss of money in their ministries. Among the ministries they have indicted and want investigated include, Health, Education, Interior, Public Service, Devolution, Defense and Agriculture. In a report for the financial year 2015/16 that was tabled in the National Assembly yesterday, the powerful Public Accounts Committee chaired by Opiyo Wandayi wants those responsible to be held personally liable for any loss of money. “If the holder of a public office, including a political office, directs or approves the use of public funds contrary to law or instructions, the person is liable for any loss arising from that use and shall make good the loss, whether the person remains the holder of the office or not,’’ read the report. Insurance cover With regards to the Interior ministry, the committee wants the EACC and DCI to investigate those responsible for the irregular award of the Sh3.5 billion comprehensive group insurance cover for police and prison officers. The move comes after British American Insurance Company (K) that quoted the lowest figure of Sh629 million was disqualified and regarded as unresponsive because the form of tender was not duly completed as required. Pioneer Assurance Company was eventually awarded the tender. “It has not been possible for the committee to make a determination on whether the process, in totality, was irregular or not. The committee, therefore, directs the relevant investigative agencies to initiate thorough and conclusive investigations into the matter and make appropriate recommendations,” reads the report. Further, the committee wants Auditor General Edward Ouko to probe Interior ministry for spending Sh8 billion on the purchase of goods and services from local and foreign suppliers. The committee wants Ouko to carry out an audit on letters of credit used for procurement of goods and services and present a report. Irregular procurement “The Auditor-General should, within three months of adoption of the report, carry out a further audit on the 42 LCs valued at Sh8,605,888,050 used for procurement of goods and services from both local and foreign suppliers and present his findings to the National Assembly for necessary action,” reads the report. With regards to Health ministry, the committee  wants  EACC to conclude investigations and have those behind the irregular procurement of Sh800 million for portable clinics apprehended. The clinics were paid for before they could be installed, commissioned and handed over, thus contravening the contractual agreement. The ministry is also on the spot over the Sh4.6 billion expended on the controversial rental of medical equipment. Over Sh42.6 billion has been spent on the equipment so far though the procurement, contract, progress report documents and the Attorney General’s legal opinion on the contracts have never been made public. With regards to Education ministry, the committee wants the then head of Public Service, Amb Francis Muthaura and Prof Nick Wanjohi probed for awarding scholarship of Sh25.5 million to two relatives of  former President Mwai Kibaki who studied in Australia without any written proof.