By PD Reporter The Maa Trust, a community based organisation in the Maasai Mara has partnered with iBUILD in a move aimed at training to empower the youth in the Kenya’s Mara area – with the initiative’s long-term goal meant to offer Employment opportunities for Maasai youth. The Maa Trust will work with iBUILD to coordinate construction training and employment opportunities for youth aged 18-35. The multi-prong intervention has firstly set up the Maa Bricks social enterprise, with the support and expertise of the iBUILD team, the project has already trained 38 youth in the production of compressed soil eco-bricks to be used for environmentally sustainable construction projects and affordable housing. Maa Bricks will greatly reduce the environmental impact of construction work. In summer 2016, in cooperation with The Maa Trust, volunteers from iBUILD worked to construct the first mud brick demonstration house, including inexpensive solar technology to provide enough energy for basic lighting and cell phone charging. IBUILD provide the instrumental project management and human resource component central to the Maa Bricks effort. The iBUILD platform brings together the contractors and workers to accomplish hiring, skills rating, time sheet tracking and weekly construction crew payments for brick-making and skilled labour. The Maa Bricks program is currently working on an order of 110,000 bricks to construct the new Maa Empowerment Hub which includes an IT hub, which will be used for training youth and teachers in IT skills. This will result in the diversification of livelihoods in the Maasai Mara which is essential to address the environmental challenges created when pastoral communities have high population growth rates and try to increase livestock holdings well above carrying capacity in an attempt to support their families. IBUILD provide the instrumental project management and human resource component central to the Maa Bricks effort. The iBUILD platform brings together the contractors and workers to accomplish hiring, skills rating, time sheet tracking and weekly construction crew payments for brick-making and skilled labor.