Seth Onyango @SethManex Kenyans who lost their kin in last month’s Ethiopian Airlines plane crash on the outskirts of Addis Ababa will receive up to Sh17 million as compensation. Foreign Affairs ministry issued a communiqué advising families of the crash victims to obtain grant of representation from court to enable them access the funds from the airline. A Law of Succession Act requires relatives of the deceased to obtain grant of representation a document proving the legal authority of the person entrusted to deal with the deceased’s estate. Foreign Affairs Principal Secretary Macharia Kamau said the process would ensure that only bona fide next of kin would access the compensation. Families affected by the devastating plane crash involving a Boeing 737 MAX 8 aircraft are entitled to some Sh17 million each in compensation according to the Montreal Convention. The convention put in place in 1999 provides guidelines to indemnify those who perish in a plane crash. Minimum value It was adopted by a United Nations agency known as the Civil Aviation Organisation (CAO), stipulating that if an airline is found at fault for an accident, each affected passenger is to get a minimum value equal to 113,100 special drawing rights. This type of plane crash compensation currently equals approximately $170,000 (Sh17 million) per passenger. For the family that lost five members in the ill-fated plane, they are entitled to Sh85 million. Families of victims are expected to get more cash from the suits against the airplane maker, Boeing, which they have accused of manufacturing a faulty aircraft. A fortnight ago, a consortium of Kenyan and American law firms announced plans to sue the company over the crash. Preliminary report shows that the pilots of the Ethiopian Airlines 737 MAX jet that crashed killing all 157 aboard followed emergency procedures outlined by the manufacturer. Experts revealed after turning off a flight-control system that was automatically pushing the plane’s nose down shortly after takeoff, the crew couldn’t get the aircraft to maintain its balance until it crashed. It is after failing to regain control of the aircraft that they deviated from the system. Deadly crash Boeing had issued guidelines to pilots on how to disable an automated anti-stall system after a deadly crash in Indonesia in October 2018, that were followed by an emergency airworthiness directive by the US Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). Law firms comprised Senator Irungu Kang’ata and Co Advocates (Nairobi), Laban Opande, Attorneys (Texas US) and Carlos Velasquez (Florida US) said plans are at an advanced stage to file the suit. Principal Counsel Opande said they would seek compensation from Boeing on behalf of eight Kenyan families whose kin died in the crash.