Which is your latest gadget and what do you love about it? My HUION 1060 plus 8192 graphics drawing tablet. What I love most about it are the 12 express keys on it and the over 1000 pen pressure. With it, I enjoy smooth and accurate lines. How does it work? It is easy to operate, whether you are a novice or veteran. Once connected to a laptop or a computer, the gadget becomes independent, thanks to the 12 express keys. It also has a rechargeable stylus, which continues to charge while you work and it has the advantage of energy conservation and considerate design. How has it improved your work? It has improved my work in several ways, first I don’t use papers, paints, brushes, and erasers anymore, it has the tools inbuilt and second, a job that would take more than five hours manually, today will take me one hour. This is one gadget that I cannot trade for anything. Have you ever bought a gadget that didn’t serve you as expected? Yes, I remember when I bought my Apple iPad pencil I was super excited and I couldn’t wait to start using it but, though it was a good gadget it was super sensitive and I ended up replacing it. Which is your most expensive gadget and how much did it cost? That must be my WACOM Cintiq H13 and I bought it for Sh150,000 Which gadget do you use the most and why? Mostly I use my HUION 1060 plus 8192 because of the quality it produces and it is easier to use because the instructions are clear. Which app do you use most on your phone and why? The app I use most on my phone is WhatsApp because it enables me to communicate easily and share images and videos with clients. Which is the gadget you can’t live without and why? The gadget I can’t live without is a laptop because it connects me to my work and the world. If you were to upgrade one of your most valued gadgets, what would you opt for and why? I would still go for the upgraded version of my Huion since it would be more or less the same save for a few new controls. While upgrading I look for the output, not brand as I care about the end result. The gadget you always wish you had? I have been eyeing the latest version of CINTIQ, the new Cintiq 16HD. This new model comes with the same Wacom Pro Pen 2 which has 8,192 levels of pressure sensitivity that comes with the Pro models. But, instead of the 4K resolution with 94 per cent Adobe Red, Green, and Blue (RGB) colour space, that is only available in Pro series. The new model has a 15.6-inch display with 72 per cent of National Television System Committee( NTSC) colour gamut and it has an anti-glare display.