Hillary Mageka @hillarymageka In what may sound stranger than fiction, some county “tenderpreneurs” bought a thermos flask at Sh8,697, taking looting of public resources to shocking new levels. In a report tabled at a Senate committee, the Ethics and Anti-corruption Commission (EACC) discloses horrifying cases of theft of public funds. In one case, “rare” gas, in a 13kg cylinder, which normally costs less than Sh2,000, was bought at Sh15,000. In another case, a serving tray, perhaps made from rare metal, was bought at Sh6,490, the report says. In counties, graft is manifested in blatant abuse of the tendering process where prices of common items are increased many times over. Appearing before the Senate County Public Accounts and Investments Committee (CPAIC), EACC vice-chair Sophia Lepuchirit and Commissioner Dabar Abdi Maalim said   county officials inflate cost of commodities in procurement of goods and services. Governors also reward their cronies with multi-billion-shilling tenders. “The commission’s team undertaking system review came across an invoice from a caterer where a 13 kg gas cylinder was purchased at Sh15,000, a steel flask at Sh8,697 and a serving a tray at Sh6,490,” Maalim said in reference to research, done between 2015 and 2017. “The contracts were awarded without due regard to procurement laws and relevant guidelines,” he added. Bid prices, he said, were not compared with the market price survey before purchase, contrary to provisions of the Public Procurement and Disposal Act 2005. “This opens a loophole where the county assembly can purchase items at amounts higher than the market prices and incur losses leading to lack for money,” Maalim told the Senator Moses Kajwang’-led committee. Rigged contracts He was speaking during a consultative meeting with the committee on corruption risk assessment in county governments. EACC disclosed that governors were rigging contracts in favour of dealers that give them kickbacks. Further, county governments made fraudulent payments or excessive payments from public revenues for sub-standard goods. “It was also discovered that devolved units were paying for goods not supplied or not supplied in full and services not rendered,” Maalim said. During the session, it was revealed that the EACC was currently handling 145 active investigations related to counties. In addition, another 55 county investigations had reached the stage of evidence by the commission according to Lepuchirit. “This is the final stage in the investigations conducted by EACC meaning some of the files will soon be presented to the office of the director of Public Prosecutions with the recommendation as per the law,” Lepuchirit said. Since 2017, the anti-graft body had received a total of 2, 903 reports on county governments as well 90 reports on county assemblies. The reports were made through the commission headquarters, 11 regional offices and 50 Huduma Centres. “EACC values the support of ordinary members of the public filing such reports. In one county where the governor has recently been charged in court, the commission received a credible report complete with what, who, when, where and how aspects,” she noted. Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji has recommended continuous vetting of county officials and reports forwarded to the DCI or to the EACC for further investigations and prosecution.