Amos Abuga Athletics Kenya (AK) boss Jackson Tuwei has weighed in on the case of embattled former Olympic and world 1,500m champion Asbel Kiprop, saying the federation is working with his family and his employers to manage the situation. Speaking to People Sport on Monday, Tuwei said Kiprop’s employers; National Police Service, his family members and the federation will work together to aid the athlete who has been on a social media meltdown since Athletics Integrity Unit (AIU) handed him a four-year ban for a doping violation after being found to have used banned blood booster Erythropoietin (EPO) in an out-of-competition test in Iten in November 2017. “It is not the first time we are reaching out to the athlete (Kiprop). We are hoping it will be different this time round since the National Police Service and his immediate family members have been brought to the fold. I am confident the situation will be managed soon,” said Tuwei. The Police Constable, who is also the 2008 Beijing Olympics 1,500m champion, took to Twitter at the weekend to vent his frustrations and anger, daring his National Police Service to sack him and withdraw his firearm before he uses it to “earn justice”. “I pray to National Police Service to dismiss me now before I use their machinery to earn myself justice. Kindly, IAAF come take your medals. I don’t need any on my house wall,” tweeted Kiprop on Saturday. The three-time 1,500m world champion, who has maintained his innocence, also blamed AK for failing to come to his defence. “What we can do is offer counselling services to athletes who are in this situation. Remember, AK is no the investigating authority, most importantly we are in the forefront of advocating for a clean sport,” added Tuwei. Clinical psychologist Timothy Juma says the runner could be going through extreme stress which leads to depression after reaching the burnout stage. “Asbel needs help and not condemnation or disciplinary action. It is not until he sits down with an expert that we can authoritatively say he is depressed. Symptoms of extreme stress and depression overlap at times. However, from his social media outbursts, the events of his ban are traumatic and he is going through a grieving process, the first being denial,” said Juma. The psychologist says symptoms of extreme stress include being short tempered, moodiness, a feeling of being overwhelmed, loneliness and isolation, anxiety among others.