Hellen Njeri You work hard and try to save money, so why is there never enough to cover all the bills or to put away in your child’s college fund? In her book ‘Ultimate Lifetime Money Plan’ Senator Elizabeth Warren and her daughter Amelia Warren Tyagi provide a solid starting point for those struggling to make ends meet. They popularised the 50/20/30 budget rule by basically dividing after-tax income as follows: Spending 50 per cent on needs and 30 per cent on wants while allocating 20 per cent to savings. After reviewing your spending and creating a budget you will have a clear picture on exactly how much you spend on your home, car, optional spending, and how much is diverted to your retirement accounts. What about your other savings, such as for emergency? How does your financial allocation compare to the amount you should ideally spend and save? So how does the 50/30/20 rule work? Here’s how Warren recommends you organise your budget. 1. Calculate your net-income Your after-tax income is what remains of your pay check after taxes are taken out, such as Pay As You Earn (PAYE), company pension, National Social Security Fund, National Health Insurance Fund and possibly the housing levy. If you are an employee with a steady pay check, your after-tax income should be easy to figure out. Look at your pay stub. If retirement contributions, or any other deductions are taken out of your pay cheque, add them back in. If you are self-employed, your after-tax income equals your gross income less your business expenses, such as the cost of your laptop or air tickets to conferences/client-meetings, office-space rent as well as the amount you set aside for value added tax and corporate taxes. Also remember to set aside some money for miscellaneous expenses. 2. Limit your needs to 50 per cent of net income Now go back to your budget. How much do you spend on “needs” each month, things like groceries, housing, utilities, health cover, car payment, and car insurance? According to Warren’s 50/30/20 rule, the amount that you spend on these things should total no more than 50 per cent of your net pay. Of course, you must differentiate between which expenses are “needs” and which are “wants.” Basically, any payment that you can forego with only minor inconveniences such as your cable-tv bill or a premium hair-do is a want. Any payment that would severely impact your quality of life, such as electricity, water-bill, house rent and medicines, is a need. If you cannot forego a payment such as a school-bus payment for the children, it can be considered a “need,” according to Warren. If the minimum required for life pension is four per cent and you regularly pay 10 per cent a month to keep a manageable balance, that additional six per cent is not a need, it is considered a want. 3. Limit your “wants” to 30 per cent This sounds great on the surface. Can you put 30 per cent of your money toward your wants? The beautiful shoes on sale, weekend road-trips with family and friends, massage parlour payments and night-out meals with the boys! Not so fast. Remember how strict the definition of a “need” is. Your “wants” do not include extravagances. They include the basic details of life that you enjoy, like that unlimited text messaging plan on your phone, your home’s cable bill, and cosmetic (not mechanical) repairs to your car. You might spend more on “wants” than you think. A thread-bare minimum of warm clothing is a need. Anything beyond that, such as shopping for clothes at the mall rather than at a discount outlet, qualifies as a want. Yes, the rule is tricky but makes sense. 4. Spend 20 per cent on savings and debt repayments The ‘20’ in the rule is the extra payments you make each month, that are neither wants nor needs. You should spend at least 20 per cent of your after-tax income repaying debts and saving money in your emergency fund and retirement accounts. If you carry a credit card balance, the minimum payment is a “need” and it counts toward the 50 per cent. Anything extra is an additional debt repayment, which goes toward the 20 per cent category. If you carry a mortgage or a car loan, the minimum payment is a “need” and any extra payments count toward “savings and debt repayment” is a want.