Nicholas Waitathu and George Kebaso @PeopleDailyKe Intrigues surrounding the ongoing maize crisis yesterday evening claimed the scalp of the acting National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB) managing director Albin Sang. As the high-stakes political power games and blackmail play out, Kenyans are caught up in the paradoxical rock and hard place in a country suffering a maize shortage that has spiked the price of a staple food for many amidst a glut. Already unga prices have shot up from Sh100 per 2-kilogramme packet in January to between Sh117 and Sh120. Yesterday, Agriculture Cabinet secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri, who on three occassions scheduled a press briefing on the status of maize in the national strategic reserves, hoarding of the commodity by farmers and spiralling unga prices, handed Sang his matching orders. Missing in action The CS has since April 25 dodged the big question; what is the government doing to stem unga prices, which are projected to hit Sh130 for a 2-kg packet by next week? Yesterday’s press conference was again postponed with no explanation given, but it latter emerged the changes at NCPB may have prompted it. The changes take place even as the crisis of low supply deepens in the market with the price of a 90kg bag now increasing to Sh3,400 as at end of last week. By Friday last week, a 90kg bag of maize was retailing at between Sh3,000 to a high of Sh3,400 across the country while in Nairobi the same was trading at Sh3,500. Millers and processors claim the local market is grappling with low supply as farmers hoard maize hoping prices will improve. Two weeks ago, Kiunjuri said the country has enough maize to the tune of  21 million bags with farmers keeping 13 million 90kgs bags, 3.3 million being in the hands of traders while millers and processors hold 680,588 bags and 4.3 million is in NCPB. Consumption per month was estimated at 4.2 million. Sang was recalled to the ministry headquarters and his place taken over by food security deputy director at the ministry Zakary Magara. Food security The government had advertised the position of MD last year and Sang, who was also seconded from the ministry in May, 2018, took over when the then MD Newton Terer resigned and subsequently a group of managers were sent packing after being implicated in a maize scandal. Terer stepped aside to allow for the completion of investigations by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) and the Director of Criminal Investigation (DCI) over an alleged irregularity on maize purchases as well as the distribution of subsidised fertilizer. A senior agriculture officer, who declined to be mentioned, confirmed the decision to replace Sang was reached mid last week after he presented a report on the status of maize in all the depots across the country. “The officer has been under a lot of pressure from top officials of the ministry to present a thorough report on the actual status of maize in the country. Sang was to divulge actual details of how many bags of maize are in custody of farmers, traders, millers and those stored in NCPB depots. The report was also expected to confirm the various grades of the stored maize,” the officer told Business Hub yesterday.