Following the passing on of renowned rally driver Jonathan Toroitich, Sports Cabinet Secretary (CS) Amina Mohamed has eulogised, as he was a commonly known, as one of the best and avid rally driver the country has ever had. Amina said the history of Safari Rally cannot be written without the mention of JT, he mentored many rally drivers, navigators and crew who are participating in races across the world. “He came into rallying when many Kenyans needed indigenous names to identify with in the popular sport. He brought in a fresh breath and renewed interest by local enthusiasts into the sport. Indeed, many fans would wait along the route to watch him drive by and walk back home thereafter,” read part of the CS’s statement. ‘JT’, son to Kenya’s second President Daniel Moi, started rallying in 1986 at the age of 32 and had a career spanning over 10 years in motorsport. He won the 1997 Kenya National Rally Championship (KNRC) title with the late Ibrahim Choge in a Toyota Celica GT4 and finished fifth in the Safari Rally, which was part of the World Rally Championship (WRC) at the time. The sad news of ‘JT’s’ death over the Easter weekend were followed closely by more devastating news for motorsport enthusiasts as several people died in a fatal accident involving two street racing cars in ol Donyo Sabuk near Namanga as Kenyans competed with Tanzanians in an unsanctioned Easter competition. Safari Rally back Two cars driving side by side hit each other and crushed into the crowd. According to the CS who sent her condolences to all the families and friends who lost their loved ones while wish those injured quick recovery, authorities are investigating the incident. “As Kenya gears to get our own Safari Rally back as a WRC event, I wish to urge all rally fans and enthusiasts to comply with set rules of participation and keep a safe distance from the cars during the local and international events which will be taking place in Kenya and beyond. I also urge all motorsport enthusiasts to only participate in events approved by the Kenya Motorsports Association or FIA,” said the CS.