Pascal Sala @salapascal It will be Easter unusual for former National Land Commission (NLC) chair Mohammad Swazuri and 10 others in Sh109 million land compensation scam. This is after chief magistrate Lawrence Mugambi ruled that they be held for five more days pending their bail ruling on April 23. The eleven were charged with abuse of office, conspiracy to commit economic crimes, money laundering, financial misconduct, unlawful acquisition of public property among other accounts. And on Friday morning when they arraigned to take a plea, Swazuri and his co-accused, who were arrested on Wednesday evening by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption commission(EACC) and held overnight, pleaded not guilty to the charges. The former NLC chair, who has faced a litany litany of integrity queries, was arrested alongside former chief executive officer Tom Chavangi, Valuation and Taxation director Salome Munubi, Finance director Francis Mugo and businessman Sostenah Taracha over the illegal compensation of a piece of land belonging to Tornado Carriers Limited for lanf acquired by the KenHA for the Construction of Mombasa Southern by-pass and Kipevu terminal link road. Though the land was in 2015 evaluated at Sh 34.5 million, Swazuri-led commission rejected it and ordered a re-evaluation which gave an inflated new figure of Sh109 million, which the commision proceeded to pay and allegedly shared out Sh55.4m among the suspects in concert with two of the firm’s two directors, Asia Akhtar Nazir Ahmed and Tarah Begun Khan. This fraudulent transaction infalting the cost of land and loss of taxpayer cash was unearthed by an audit report. According to EACC,the Sh54.5 million was paid to the accounts of CW Chege Advocates, who then distributed the money to officials of the commission by “way of kickbacks for facilitating the inflated payment”. “This scandal is just the tip of fraudulent acquisition and irregular compensation of land compulsorily acquired through the NLC for various Government projects including the Standard Gauge Railway, expansion of roads and construction of by-passes,” EACC investigator Catherine Ngari said in an affidavit. The prosecution also says there is evidence of fake compensation by NLC, double payments and over payments. Thirteen other suspects are being sought over the scam.