Healthy eating is the new zeitgeist. It is the wagon everyone has jumped on in a bid to have healthier skin, stave off wrinkles as well as keep off the pounds. Salads dominate centre stage of the healthy eating movement, mainly because they can be as varied as they are colourful. I am not here to repeat what you already know, that a salad a day will keep the doctor away, even though it will, I am here to help you make a delightful raw salad. Especially on those days you want to eat and KPLC is playing more hiding than seeking, or when your gas is kaput. A man has to eat. Here are a few salad recipes whose ingredients are leafy items that are readily available in your kitchen and in the local markets. One is a tomato, cucumber and cabbage salad, the other is a simple carrot salad, and the last one is a lettuce, bacon and avocado salad, because avocado season is here and everything tastes better with avocado. Feel free to switch the bacon for some brawn, which is more readily available. You can try them out with or without a salad dressing. The salad dressing, just like most types of dressing, is largely optional. Besides, with just one part vinegar and three parts olive oil, you already have a vinaigrette dressing. Go on, try out these recipes. I am rooting for you! I beleaf in you. LETTUCE, BACON AND AVOCADO SALAD Ingredients 1 washed and chopped or shredded lettuce An avocado, pitted and sliced ½ an onion, diced 1 bell pepper sliced Shredded bacon or torn pieces of brawn Lemon juice Salt and pepper to season Method Toss all the vegetables and the bacon/brawn strips together save for the avocado. Carefully place the avocado slices on top of the veggies. Sprinkle with salt and pepper to taste. Then sprinkle the salad with lemon juice so that the avocados don’t blacken. Serve! TOMATO, CUCUMBER AND CABBAGE SALAD Ingredients ¼ white cabbage, washed and cut into thin strips 2 medium tomatoes, sliced ½ a cucumber, diced ¼ an onion, thinly sliced ½ a bunch of coriander, diced Salt and pepper to taste Method Put everything in a large bowl. Toss and mix together. Add some salt and pepper to taste. Enjoy! Can serve two, or one, depending on individual appetites. CUCUMBER CARROT SALAD Ingredients ½ an onion diced 3 carrots diced ½ a cucumber diced Salt and pepper to season Diced coriander for garnish Method Toss everything up in a bowl. Add some salt and pepper to taste. You can add some more coriander for garnish. Dig in.