Lynette Matheka Skipper James ‘Tyson’ Ongwae powered Kenya Basketball Federation (KBF) men’s league debutants Eldonets past last season’s losing semi-finalists Strathmore University Blades in a tightly contested 76-72 outcome. The win for Morris Ouma’s charges extends their untainted record on their backyard in the premier league to five wins in as many matches. Ongwae scored 20 points with Kevin Oyugi adding 15 in the score line for the win. The team is yet to pick a win away. Blades dominated in the first quarter, scoring 23 points against Eldonets’ 12 with the tables turning in the second quarter as the former managed 12 while the latter had 22 for a one-point difference to the breather. A see-saw in the second half of the match had the eventual winners scoring 23 points against 22 for a 57 all draw at the end of the third period. It was Ouma’s charges, however, who came on top as they scored 19 against Blades’ 15 in the final period for the hard earned victory. Top scorer Blades’ Cliff Alela was the encounter’s top scorer having sank 21 points with youngster Ken Dwallo adding 17 to the count but it was too little too late for Tony Ochieng’s side as they lost the battle by two baskets. Meanwhile,  it was a weekend to forget for Umoja as they fell to Thunder on Saturday before losing by half a basket to Kenya College of Accountancy- University (KCA-U) in a 51-50 outcome. In the Sunday match, Umoja took the lead in the first quarter after 14 points to KCA-U’s 10. The students won the second period 9-8 for a four-point deficit into the second half. Coach Charles Goro’s charges went on to dominate on all fronts in the third quarter for a 20-11 score. In a dramatic final quarter, the varsity side led by three points with 39 seconds on the clock. Umoja won two free throws, converted by Nick Ogol reducing the gap to just a point. KCA-U won four free throws, in the preceding seconds, for a chance to open the gap but lost all four for the final tally of 51-50. “The team is improving with every match and even though we are not performing at our optimum level I am hoping for a better show in coming matches and into the second leg, “ said Goro. On their part,  Thunder’s stay at the helm was extended by Saturday’s win over Umoja and coach Sadat Gaya attributed it to sticking to their game plan. “Slowing down Alan Ouma and Ogol who are the engine of our opponents worked well for us.  However, despite the win,  we were poor offensively and our defence won us the match,” said Gaya.