The Director of Public Prosecutions and the Director of Criminal Investigations have asked the  High Court to dismiss a case by controversial televangelist David Kariuki Ngare, popularly known as Gakuyo, challenging his arrest. In an affidavit filed by Inspector Paul  Waweru, the DCI and DPP say the petition stopping them from investigating or arresting Gakuyo lacks clarity, precision and is premature as investigations are still ongoing. “The petition by Kariuki is premature as it seeks to obstruct justice to 78,000 members of Ekeza Sacco Limited, Gakuyo Real Estate, Credit Co-operative Society and Gakuyo Investment Club who fell victim to the petitioner’s fraudulent investment schemes,” read the affidavit in part. In his court papers, the DPP says: “The petition is without merit and should be dismissed as it in the public interest that complainants made to the police are investigated and the perpetrators of crimes are charged and prosecuted.” Waweru says investigations are still ongoing and covers different parts of the country because Ekeza Sacco has 42 branches in eight  counties. Bar police He says the office of the DCI is mandated to probe serious offences, which include fraud, and later forward the file to DPP for further directions. The officer says in the interest of justice, the petitioner should allow the DCI to carry out investigations because ruling in favour of the petition will be curtailing their mandate. The DPP and the DCI filed a response to a case in which Gakuyo has moved to court seeking orders to stop the State from investigating and arresting him over the alleged missing cash. Gakuyo, who is alleged to have  embezzled over Sh1 billion from members of his sacco, wants the court to bar police from arresting him, recording statements from witnesses, investigating or instituting any criminal charges against him. In the case, he has sued Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i, DPP Noordin Haji, Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai and Attorney General Paul Kihara. Gakuyo claims that Matiang’i directed the Inspector General of Police to investigate and charge him for embezzlement of members’ cash, which he says is illegal. Under pressure “For some time now, there has been prolonged litigation between the Commissioner of Cooperatives against me, Ekeza Sacco and Gakuyo Real estate, which I believe has a political motive,” he said. Gakuyo now says he is afraid he will not get a fair trial in court and police are acting under pressure from Matiang’i and his political opponents, who are also inciting the public against him. Justice James Makau directed the State to file its submissions in the case in two days. The matter will be heard on May 29.