Irene Githinji and Mercy Mwai @PeopleDailyKe The Huduma Namba registration became the first causality of the divisions rocking Jubilee administration  following the passage of a recommendation by members of the National Assembly to blacklist the company awarded the tender to carry out the exercise. MPs who spoke on condition of anonymity revealed that some of the members who are unhappy with how the government has been treating them are behind the amendments that saw IDEMIA, formerly known as Safran Morpho being barred from doing business with government. Listing curtailed Details about the motion emerged as the government allayed fears that the registration could be curtailed by the move by MPs. Information, Communication and Technology  Cabinet secretary Joe Mucheru said the registration process would not be disrupted by a parliamentary recommendation, seeking to bar IDEMIA, which won the tender for listing, from operating in the country. He said the 35,000 MorphoTablet 2 data capture kits were the only hardware component supplied by IDEMIA.  Mucheru said the kits were acquired on an outright purchase basis, and as such there’s no existing contract beyond this. He said the information technology structure of the National Integrated Identity Management System (NIIMS) features a robust architecture saying, the core registration software and associated infrastructure was engineered and integrated by local software engineers. “The directions by the National Assembly do not affect Huduma Namba in any way. We continue to encourage all Kenyans, and foreign nationals residing in the country, to present themselves for Huduma Namba Biometric Registration at their nearest centre,” Mucheru said in a statement. Back amendments According to sources in Parliament, by  Tuesday  it was understood that the MPs  allied to team Tanga Tanga –an outfit associated with Deputy President William Ruto, planned and agreed to support the amendments as a way of teaching the government a lesson for alienating them. According to one of the MPs  who was involved in the  planning,  MPs allied to Ruto resolved to support the amendment by Homa Bay Town MP Peter Kaluma because he was neutral and could not raise eyebrows that the team was behind everything. “I can assure you what you saw on the floor of the House is the divisions within Jubilee. One side which is not happy with what is happening has said it will teach the government a lesson,” said an MP who sought anonymity.