John Oyuke Kenya has signed three more trade agreements with China with a view to unlocking billions of shillings to the economy and ensure continued infrastructure development to enhance transportation. During the visit to Beijing where he was attending the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), President Uhuru Kenyatta also disclosed plans to break ground on the Industrial Park and Dry Port to be constructed at the Naivasha Special Economic Zone by June. Uhuru witnessed the signing of the three key agreements, one of which allows export of frozen avocados to China after the signing of a memorandum of understanding on Sanitary and Phytosanitary Standards late last year Huge boost A statement from Office of the Chief of Staff State House said the agreement, which is a huge boost to farmers, marks the beginning of a new chapter in Kenya’s relations with China that aims to address the trade imbalance and promote mutual economic benefit. Also signed was a framework agreement between Kenya National Highways Authority and China Road and Bridge Cooperation for construction of Kenya’s first expressway from Jomo Kenyatta International Airport to Westlands. The project, aimed at decongesting Nairobi City, is privately funded through the Public Private Partnerships legal framework. The visit to Beijing, the statement signed by Chief of Staff, Nzioka Waita,  also secured a financing agreement valued at Sh17 billion between the Government Of Kenya and China Exim Bank for the construction of the Konza Technopolis Data Centre and IT infrastructure. Basic infrastructure Construction of basic infrastructure at the Konza Technopolis, it said, is in the final stages of completion and the IT project will enable the special zone to be in operation by 2020. “This is a huge milestone for the project conceived over 10 years ago and will be a significant source of jobs in the technology sphere,” the statement added. On SGR extension from Naivasha to Kisumu, Waita said while Kenya did not discuss any funding proposals for this at the Beijing meeting,  it will be important to ensure there will be no disruption in movement of cargo from Naivasha. To mitigate any risk of disruption,  he added, the government shared its short-term plans to rehabilitate the existing metre gauge railway to the Port of Kisumu to ensure seamless interconnection with the SGR at the Naivasha facilities.