Russian Premier League table-toppers Zenit St Petersburg are battling through fatigue as they attempt to stretch their lead against lowly Samara on Sunday. Zenit, in the hunt for their first Russian title in four years, are eight points clear of second-placed reigning champions Lokomotiv Moscow, who play host to bottom-placed Yenisei Krasnoyarsk also Sunday, with just five matches to go. But Saint Peterburg manager Sergei Semak said he is concerned about his men’s lack of freshness ahead of the upcoming game. “On Wednesday we’ve played an intense match with Dynamo, who are our traditionally tough opponents, just four days after a very difficult game at Krasnodar” Semak told Zenit press service. “Luckily was managed to chalk up a deserved win but I’m afraid my men had too little time for recovery. Anyway we need to pluck up our spirits to make one more step to the title.” Lokomotiv, who edged Rostov 2-1 in midweek, are at home to minnows Yenisei seriously. Lokomotiv boss Yury Syomin told his men that any lack of focus against Yenisei could cost them dear. “I always told my players that every upcoming game is the most important one,” Lokomotiv press service quoted the coach as saying. “We will fight for the title while we have even the slightest mathematical chances for a success. “Though Yenisei look doomed they may be dangerous as they have absolutely nothing to lose.  We have no right for a neglectful attitude to any rivals if we want to avoid slip-ups in the remaining matches.” Meanwhile, CSKA Moscow, who beat strugglers Anzhi Makhachkala 2-0 Wednesday to go third, will need to prove their Champions League aspirations Sunday when they visit Krasnodar. A success in Russia’s southern city would be a huge step towards qualifying for next season’s most lucrative and prestigious European tournament for the Red Army side. Viktor Gancharenko, CSKA head coach, expressed muted optimism ahead of the match at Krasnodar saying he was happy with the progress that his team has made this season. “We were happy to chalk up a win in midweek after two winless games to put pressure on the leaders,” Gancharenko said. “Our results this season show that we have performed better football against strong opponents.  It makes me optimistic ahead of our visit to Krasnodar.” -AFP