Safaricom has launched this year’s Smartphone campaign that will be introducing the most affordable 4G devices in Kenya ;-  Neon Ray and Neon Nova, in a bid to deliver a digital lifestyle experience for its customers who are currently not on smartphones. Customers will now have more options for phone upgrades through convenient payment plans and personalized data offers in the hope of digitizing 2 million Kenyans. “At Safaricom, we aim to transform lives by providing solutions to our customers. With these affordable phone options that will allow our customers to enjoy superior digital experience without stretching their finances. The new 3G and 4G Neon phones will be an advancement towards inclusivity,” said Sylvia Mulinge, Chief Customer Officer, Safaricom. Safaricom’s partnership with Google has enabled the company to access the Android Oreo (Go edition), a powerful experience for entry level smartphones with optimized Google apps using less memory, storage and data; that gives data cautious users a high quality digital experience . “Android’s mission has always been to bring the power of computing to everyone, and part of that is ensuring a great experience across the broadest range of devices,” Mahir Sahin, Director – Africa Android Partnerships, Google said. “Android Oreo (Go edition) is specifically optimised to bring the magic of Google and Android to smartphones with limited memory and processing power, and we’re excited to see Safaricom joining  that mission by launching the Neon Storm, Neon Ray and Neon Rova phones on Android Oreo (Go edition),” Sahin added. The Neon Ray (4G) runs on Android Go will be priced at an introductory KES 3,999, Neon Nova (4G) Android 9.0 will be KES 5,999 and Neon Storm (3G) will be priced at KES 3,499. The Neon smartphones will be optimised to support high-speed 4G Broadband, allowing users to enjoy the speed, reliability and wide coverage of the Safaricom network. The phones are available at Safaricom shops countrywide, Safaricom dealer outlets and online via Masoko, Safaricom’s e-commerce platform.