Antony Mwangi and Zadock Angira A weekly allocation of Sh1.2 million has been channelled to the Police Airwing for operations to flush out terrorists in Boni Forest, Lamu, months after the aircraft were grounded for technical reasons. Taxpayers have therefore paid millions to keep grounded choppers “in the air”. Pilots of the Kenya Police Air-wing used to make regular trips a week to Boni but for months now, the Mi-17 helicopters used for aerial support to troops have been grounded, yet the money continues to be released for fuel and supplies. And following a tip-off by a whistle blower, both the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) and the Internal Affairs Unit (IAU) are now investigating what is being treated as embezzlement of funds. The last Mi-17 helicopter was grounded last week after the tail rotor shaft was spoilt. Refurbished machines For instance, between January 11 and 24, only one aircraft, Augusta Westland AW119 5Y-NPW, was operational and no aircraft or crews went to Boni. However, the cash for the Boni operation was released used and later purported to have been accounted for. One of the issues under investigations is whether Chief Inspector Richard Mutua, who in the nominal roll, is listed as the head of pilots draws engineer’s allowance. This is not the first time the Police Airwing is on the spotlight. For years, it has been riddled with procurement issues and mismanagement. At no one time the Air-wing operated with a full fleet with most of its aircraft both helicopters and Fixed-wing grounded for mechanical issues. And now the National Assembly Committee on Administration and National Security has also opened a probe on the purchase of the aircraft by the department. Of particular interest to the committee are five aircraft purchased last year, which the Interior and Coordination of National Security ministry indicated were new from the United States and Italy but were actually refurbished machines from Ukraine. No licences The five Mi-17 aircraft were purchased at Sh1.4 billion each, which means that Sh7 billion was spent to buy what could turn out to have been second-hand aircraft at the price of new one. The aircraft, according to a well-placed source, cannot fly as they have not undergone the mandatory annual overhaul of the engines, which itself could cost hundreds of millions. Five other choppers bought earlier have been grounded due to same mechanical problems. The Russian-made Mi-17 helicopters had their engines repaired last year, but after operating for just a month, the engines failed and are yet to be repaired. The Kenya Civil Aviation Authority (KCAA) has  subsequently since revoked the licences of choppers owned by police, as they do not have insurance covers. The insurance cover for the fleet of 10 choppers is about Sh25 million. Some of the air-wing aircraft are also flown by officers without valid licences in the sense that for KCAA to licence them, a fee is paid and they fly at least six hours for the licences to be converted. Last week, the House National Security Committee directed the new Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai to reject the aircraft in question. “We have advised the new IG not to accept the aircrafts until after the questions raised over their procurement are addressed,” said committee chairman and Kiamba MP Paul Koinange. Koinange told People Daily during an interview that documents availed to the committee showed that the aircraft were bought from August,a Westland Company in Italy and the Bell 206 Longranger in the United States. According to a source who is conversant with the aviation industry, the MI-17 are expensive to maintain unlike Bell 206 and the Augusta AW-139. Secretive procurement The committee has also expressed concern over why the ministry went ahead and procured the helicopters for the National Police Service without approval from Parliament. Koinange said the committee would soon be opening an inquiry on the operations at the Police Air-wing to establish what has been ailing the department. The committee will also be seeking to have the law amended to compel procurement by the Department of Interior be open to competitive bidding. “The way things are done in the ministry should also change. Procurement is so secretive hence opening room for cartels to penetrate,” said Koinange. The committee, he said, also wants to establish whether the Air-wing department management is the problem to all the issues bedeviling it. “It is the feeling of the committee that the police service do away with the Airwing department since it is not serving Kenyans despite billion of shillings being pumped in,” said Koinange. When the committee visited the Airwing last year, the department director Rogers Mbithi told the team that the helicopters had been grounded due to lack of spare parts. It also emerged that the Air-wing was sourcing expertise from the Kenya Wildlife Service for repairs because police have not acquired the Approved Maintenance Organisation status from KCAA to service them. Unlike the Kenya Air-Force that operates independently, the Police Airwing is under the command of the KCAA.