I am slightly afraid of heights, slightly because my love for adventure far outweighs my phobia. I will be the person getting off a camel ride while walking like a newborn giraffe addled by the mix of fear and adrenaline. I will also be the person being carried off a roller coaster ride since I will have noodle legs at the end of the ride. The surprising thing is that I am very adept at climbing, especially trees, though climbing down is always harder. So when my sister decided that we should go rock climbing on a Saturday afternoon, I was game. At Valley Arcade, there is a newly installed climbing tower where kids and grownups go out to test out their climbing skills. The tower at Valley Arcade is the sister to the better-known Climb Bluesky’s climbing wall at Diamond Plaza. After deliberating about cost, we were harnessed and ready to start our ascent. If you want to climb barefoot or you have appropriate footwear it costs just Sh800 a day. If you would like to rent shoes, the price bumps up to Sh1,200 for both the shoes and the climbing. If you are an ardent climbing fan, then you can pay a monthly fee of Sh4,000 without shoe rental or Sh6,000 shoes included and work on your coordination, core and arm strength as those are the areas that rock climbing generally improves. It is always easier to look up than down. After being harnessed, I duck my hands in chalk and clap off the white dust like an expert. My sister and the instructor smile encouragingly and leave me to face off with the tower, heart filled with more terror than determination. I scale up all the way to the top, toe on rock, hand gripping on the most sturdy nonslip rock, clawing all the way up and defying my aching arm muscles and gravity with my sister shouting encouragingly. “Haiyarr, I thought you would not make it! Go on now come down, no one is going to carry you down like we normally do on camels and short trees!” Nothing like family to cheer you on, right! I make the mistake of looking down and consider the welcome option of fainting. After all, I am harnessed and they would have to lower me down. But my strong constitution refuses to give satisfaction to my sisters and the four-year-olds scaling endlessly up and down as if to taunt me, some actually smile at me and ask me if I am scared to which I bravely lie that I am not and climbing is a breeze. So I slowly make my way down, slower than I climbed, less surefooted, nothing like finding your footing with your toes without being aided by sight but only the voice of your sister who you are not sure whose camp she is on, yours or let her fall so I can take a hilarious photo to taunt her with when she is fifty. I make it down in one piece, albeit a sweaty one piece. I saunter away to order some wrap, which I feel is well deserved. My sister convinces me to climb up with her, probably because she figures I cannot both make noise and climb. She is right. And after a third turn at the tower, I think myself a pro. So the following week on Wednesday, I leave work at 5 to go to Diamond Plaza and sign up for the monthly gym pass. I feel like this is something that I can truly learn to enjoy, as I work out too. Michelle Obama hands here I come.