A last minute fall by Nandi Kiplagat was all Samuel Magwa needed to clinch the overall MX85 category as the 2019 Motocross season got underway at Jamhuri Park at the weekend. Both had shared the first two heats before a thriller ensued in the final one. Magwa had won the first heat amid pressure from Kiplagat before tables turned in the second. The real show was witnessed in the third and final heat when Magwa was overtaken in the fifth lap by the raging Kiplagat following a poor manoeuvre at the corner. Her joy did not last long, however, as she was passed after a fall in the last lap when history was just about to be made at the tracks in the class previously a preserve of boys. “I was lucky because I thought I had lost it. However, when she tripped, I saw a chance to go for the chequered flag. For sure it was a tough afternoon and I am looking forward to more of such races,” said a beaming Magwa even as his nemesis blamed poor calculations. In another event, Ethan Nyachae took all the MX2 heats with ease as the big names of Rolf Kihara and Kigen Kiplagat simply folded. Nyachae was imperious on his KTM 250cc bike as he controlled the race all through. At no point did he ever feel pressure as he breezed through the pack in classy fashion.“It is just the first race but I feel good on my new bike. My fitness is good and I want to keep going until the end,” said Nyachae, whose cousin Zawadi was glorious in the 50cc class. In the MX 65 class, Tanav Choda and Tray Garner engaged in an intense race. They shared the two first two heats before the former clinched the final heat to amass 57 points. Elsewhere, Zameer Verjee, Kunal Patel, Tsorav Soni, Illyun Mughal and Imran Hakada were the star attractions as the KCB Kenya National Autocross Championship season opener culminated in dramatic fashion at The Great Rift Valley racetrack in Mai Mahiu. Zameer attributed his Two Wheel Drive Non Turbo victory to meticulous driving lines and speed. “It was a hot and dusty day but a great run on the volcanic ash soil. After upgrading to a new class, the Rage Buggy looks great and I’m hoping for the best in the next rounds,” said Zameer, who beat Sameer Nanji to second place with Rajveer Thethy coming in third and Sarry Mughal fourth.