Three groups have emerged in the Mt Kenya region as battle lines are drawn in an increasingly intense jostling for Central’s leadership in the post-Uhuru Kenyatta era. The repositioning and realignments of the political elite have sucked in current and former legislators pushed by wider national 2022 succession discourse and catalysed by the dynamics of the March 9 handshake between President Uhuru and Opposition leader Raila Odinga. The jostling now threatens to overheat the political landscape, with the three groups— Mt Kenya and Diaspora Leaders Forum, Mt Kenya Parliamentary Group and “Tangatanga”, a pro-Deputy President William Ruto team made mostly of sitting MPs— locked in open warfare. Meeting’s agenda Yesterday, the Mt Kenya and Diaspora Leaders Forum chaired by nominated MP Maina Kamanda and comprising former elected leaders met at a Kiambu hotel to chart their course with the main agenda being to dethrone the ‘tanga tanga’ group largely composed of their political nemesis and sitting legislators drumming up support for Ruto’s 2022 State House bid. Central Diaspora includes leaders from areas such as Nakuru and Laikipia counties. Most vocal being Kimani Ngunjiri (Bahati) and includes Charity Kathambi (Njoro) and Catherine Waruguru Laikipia (Woman Rep). Another team, Mt Kenya Parliamentary Group chaired by Nominated MP Cecily Mbarire, largely appear neutral in the succession debate but majority of members in this group are said to be pro-Ruto  even as Mbarire is yet to publicly pronounce her stand. According to a source who attended the meeting but sought anonymity,  it discussed ways of taming the pro-Ruto group. According to the source, the Kamanda team, which also includes seasoned politicians Peter Kenneth, who attended yesterday’s meeting, Martha Karua, former MPs Mutahi Kagwe and Kembi Gitura, plan to take the fight to the pro-Ruto MPs backyard by campaigning in their home constituencies. The team has reportedly managed to win over some sitting MPs with three senators; Ephraim Maina (Nyeri), Irungu Kang’ata (Murang’a), Charles Kibiru (Kirinyaga) and nominated senator Isaac Mwaura joining them for the strategy meeting. Others were Ngunjiri Wambugu (Nyeri Town) and Joseph Nduati (Gatanga). The Democratic Party chairman Esau Kioni and former Molo MP Joseph Kiuna were also present. Curiously, leaders from Kiambu, Uhuru’s home county, gave the meeting a wide berth with the Kiambaa MP Paul Koinange being the only attendee. The entire Kiambu leadership is presumed to be in Ruto’s camp while those who lost in the last election in the county have also kept off the emerging camps. The rest of the legislators from the “Diaspora” and the Upper Eastern region of Meru and Tharaka Nithi are in the pro-Ruto team. Prominent leaders from this area who identified with Ruto include Tharaka Nithi Governor Muthomi Njuki, Meru Senator Mithika Linturi and Senate Deputy Speaker Kindiki Kithure. A pro-Ruto legislator who spoke to People Daily dismissed the Kamanda group as spoilers. “Out of over 70 MPs from Mt Kenya and Diaspora only about seven are not in Ruto’s camp, while three are nominated and of course having reasons not take sides, the other four cannot come out and state their positions publicly,” said the MP. Ruto’s point men have in the past stated that they are under immense pressure from unmanned people to stop associating themselves with the DP. Politically, Uhuru and Raila have been reading from the same script especially on the likely referendum to ensure inclusivity in governance. Kamanda last evening told the People Daily that his team’s main agenda is to push for the interest of the region to be addressed in the planned referendum. “We want our interests to be catered for in the referendum, this is our main agenda as leaders,” he said, adding that his group has managed to bring on board respected personalities in the regional politics including the Kikuyu Council of Elders and the “Kiama Kiama”.