Liverpool emerged from the Premier League’s packed festive season with a four-point lead at the top of the table, despite slipping to a first defeat of the campaign to Manchester City on Thursday. That huge win puts City back in the title race after a shocking start to the four-game run squeezed into the holiday season and keeps Spurs on the fringes of the chase just six points behind. Here, AFP Sports looks at five things we learned from the Premier League’s festive fixtures. Title in Liverpool’s hands Many expected Liverpool to surrender a slender one-point lead at the top with a tricky trip to Wolves to start and back-to-back games against Arsenal and City to end their festive four-game run. Yet, it was City who blinked first in the title race with shock defeats to Crystal Palace and Leicester, opening up a seven-point lead for Jurgen Klopp’s men on the back of nine straight Premier League wins. Despite losing for the first time in the league this season at the Etihad, Liverpool remain in pole position with no more meetings against City to come. City’s key positions exposed One of the reasons City were red hot favourites to retain their title was the seemingly endless depth of quality on offer to Pep Guardiola. Yet, the champions’ failure to strengthen in two key positions over the summer has come back to haunt City. Guardiola wanted Jorginho to compete with Fernandinho in holding midfield but the Brazilian choose to join Maurizio Sarri in moving from Napoli to Chelsea. When forced to cope without their defensive midfield anchor for the first time this season, City lost to Palace and Leicester. Solskjaer’s immediate impact Manchester United headed into the festive season under new management, but the appointment of Solskjaer to replace the sacked Jose Mourinho has reaped instant rewards. A kind fixture list has helped, but United have looked transformed in scoring 14 goals in four wins over Cardiff, Huddersfield, Bournemouth and Newcastle from the side Mourinho left behind, 11 points off a top-four finish. That gap is now down to six and the turnaround inspired by key players like Paul Pogba and Marcus Rashford hitting top form has also raised hopes United could even spring a surprise against Paris Saint-Germain in the last 16 of the Champions League. Spurs close but not yet challengers For much of the festive season Tottenham showed why Mauricio Pochettino is in demand with both United and Real Madrid reportedly poised to make a summer move for the Spurs boss. The free-scoring form of Harry Kane, Son Heung-min and Christian Eriksen sealed comprehensive wins over Everton, Bournemouth and Cardiff. However, Tottenham are no closer to the leaders than they started the past four games due to a 3-1 home defeat to Wolves. Chelsea lacking firepower If it wasn’t evident before, Chelsea’s four festive fixtures underlined the need for more firepower up front if they are to secure a top-four finish. Sarri’s men scored just three goals in four games against Leicester, Watford, Crystal Palace and Southampton. -AFP