Zachary Ochuodho @zachuodho Kenya still has some room to refinance its debt in a bid to manage the costs of servicing loans by lengthening the maturity profiles, the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) governor disclosed yesterday. Speaking during the post-Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) briefing, Patrick Njoroge (pictured), said as at September last year, the national debt stood at 56.5 per cent of gross domestic product (GDP) rising from 42 per cent of GDP in 2013. Njoroge said what the country needs to do is to manage the debt especially when it can borrow for a longer tenure to retire expensive loans. “There is scope for the reorganisation of the debt portfolio, including replacing more expensive debt with cheaper ones,” Njoroge said. He said there was a need to look at the policies undertaken by Governments (national and county levels) to reduce their deficits and accumulation of debt stock, check what are the drivers of increasing debt and find out other cheaper source to finance loans. The Governor advised that the best way to deal with the debt was to look at the fiscal position, what is causing the deficit and thereafter adopt the fiscal consolidation that can address the problem. Credit risk for banks, he said, was easing following the prudent management of the non-performing loans (NPL) which declined from 12.3 per cent in October to 12 per cent in December. “The ratio of gross NPLs to gross loans fell following sustained recovery efforts by banks particularly in the trade, manufacturing, building and construction and transport and communications sectors,” he said. Reckless lending However, the Governor cautioned banks against reckless lending that could see the NPL rising again. He projects that Kenya’s economy would grow by 6.3 per cent in 2019 driven mainly by the agriculture and service sectors. “Expectations of increased agricultural production, the continuing decline in international oil prices, a stable macroeconomic environment and strong tourism performance also contributed to the strong positive sentiment,” he said. Njoroge also said micro, small and medium-scale enterprises remained resilient in 2018 and are expected to support growth in 2019, to the extent that their constraints, including access to finance, are alleviated.