Liverpool, Tuesday @PeopleSports11 Liverpool resume their title challenge with a home game against Leicester on Wednesday night, but can the Premier League leaders maintain their unbeaten record at Anfield this season? Liverpool vs Leicester Liverpool are out to extend their lead over Manchester City at the top of the Premier League table when they welcome Leicester to Anfield on Wednesday night. The Reds have recovered from defeat to the second-placed defending champions with back-to-back wins. A sneaky victory at Brighton helped return them to winning ways, before a thrill-a-minute 4-3 success over Crystal Palace last time out kept them ahead in the title race. Leicester don’t know what to make of themselves this season, with ninth place in the EPL table hardly telling the whole story.  Claude Puel’s position in the hotseat looks shaky, particularly after suffering three defeats in their last four. The last loss was toughest to stomach – a 4-3 reverse at Wolves after a game where neither side’s defence came away with much credit. Bournemouth vs Chelsea Chelsea face a tricky trip to the South coast to face Bournemouth, as they bid to keep their top four chase on track. The Blues suffered a comprehensive 2-0 loss at London rivals Arsenal two weekends ago, leaving them at risk of falling behind the Gunners and Manchester United in the Champions League race. Maurizio Sarri must engineer a return to winning ways at the Vitality Stadium against a side who did just that last time out. Bournemouth cruised to an impressive 2-0 victory over West Ham in Dorest, ending their winless to run leave them 12th in the table. Tottenham must overcome Watford at Wembley on Wednesday to reinvigorate their unlikely EPL title tilt. Mauricio Pochettino’s side host their near-neighbours off the back of two defeats in their last four in the Premier League. It’s a run that has seen them slip back off the pace of the top two, although a 2-1 win at Fulham didn’t do any harm in their last league appointment. Watford are proud leaders of the Best of The Rest section, sitting seventh in the table, albeit now 11 points adrift of sixth-placed Manchester United. The Hornets make the short trip down the Metropolitan Line unbeaten in four, although three of those have been draws against Newcastle, Bournemouth and 11 days ago at home to Burnley. -AFP