The recent DusitD2 terror attack might have happened several kilometres away from residents of Mogotio in Baringo county, but the incident has left more questions than answers among them. This is after George Kamau Ndung’u, a familiar face in the dusty township, was arraigned in Nairobi alongside four other suspects on January 21 in connection with the terror attack, that left 22 people dead. Ndung’u reportedly lived in Mogotio, where he was a barber in the town dominated by members of the Tugen, Turkana, and Somali communities. It was shock and disbelief when residents saw his picture in the media as he had lived among them for a long time. Few in the area are willing to talk about the matter for fear of victimisation, and those who do, have sought anonymity. “I know him because he used to shave me in one of the kinyozi’s I used to frequent,” a resident said. No link Ndung’u reportedly disappeared from the area in November, last year. “He was born here but the family moved to Mombasa some years back,” another resident said, adding that Ndung’u only resurfaced a few months ago before he disappeared again. “His grandmother owns property here although they moved to Pipeline in Nakuru,” she added. “He was a very disciplined and religious boy. He always attended prayers at the local mosque,” a friend said. Ndung’u was arrested in Isiolo alongside other suspects, who are believed to have participated in planning the hotel attack. His employer at the barber shop, who is popularly known as Ras, was summoned by police for questioning but was released later. “I was called by investigators and I told them everything I know but I cannot talk about those issues to the media,”he said. Ndung’u’s landlord was also interrogated by police. “They were later released because there was no link between them and the suspect or terrorism,” said Mogotio OCS. Ndung’u was charged alongside the mother of one of the terrorists, who killed by police commandos during the attack. The Milimani Law Court allowed the prosecution to detain Ali Salim Gichunge’s mother Sakina Mariam Abdalla, Mukhtar Ibrahimak Hussein and Ndung’u for 30 days for investigations to be completed. Abdalla was added 10 more days. Ibrahim is believed to have communicated with one of the attackers and facilitated his movement on Tuesday before the terror incident. He is an assistant sheikh in Mandera Town. He was arrested on January 19, near Jamia Mosque, Mandera.