Baraka Karama @PeopleDailyKe He has stared death in the face three times. At 18, Juma Amedi will live to tell tales of how he survived three crocodile attacks. The scars in his stomach and chest will forever remain a painful reminder of his miraculous escapes. Five years ago, Juma had gone to take a bath with his friend, Brian Ochuro, on the shores of Usoma Beach in the outskirts of Kisumu town when they were attacked by a crocodile. “We were taking a bath and suddenly a crocodile appeared from nowhere. I only noticed when it hit with its tail. I jumped out but my friend could not. He screamed for help but I could not help because I had sustained some injuries,” he said. Ochuro’s decomposing body was found five days later on the shores of the beach. Juma spent one month at the Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Referral Hospital receiving treatment. Six months later, Juma had accompanied another friend, Ramadhan Khamis, on a fishing expedition when they were attacked. “On our way back in the boat, a crocodile overturned our boat and attacked Ramadhan. We, however, managed to swim to safety but my friend’s  thigh was badly injured,” he said. Ramadhan died a year later. Six months ago, Juma ran for his dear life when he was attacked by a  crocodile on the shores of Usoma Beach. “I don’t know whether it is the same crocodile that is baying for my blood or it’s a different one. Each time I visit the beach, it comes after me,” he said. Juma, a second born in a family of six, lives on the shores of the beach. “It pains that two of my friends have been killed by crocodiles. I am afraid that having survived the attacks I may be next,” he said. Juma added that efforts to get compensation from the Kenya Wildlife Service (KWS) have been unsuccessful. “My friend, Ramadhan was due to be compensated but he died before he could be paid. I hope that KWS will look into my issue,” he said. Efforts to get comments from KWS were futile. Last year, five people were killed by crocodile in the area. Mzee Asman Abayo, a village elder said: “We have tried to reach out to KWS but in vain. People in this village are living in fear.”