Seth Onyango, Baraka Karama and Mercy Mwai @PeopleDailyKe President Uhuru Kenyatta’s image in Luo Nyanza has undergone a significant makeover following his truce with the region’s political kingpin Raila Odinga in March last year. Just nine months ago, it was hard to imagine the President visiting the region, let alone being given a heroic welcome to Kisumu, because of the poll dispute pitting the duo, which divided the nation along ethnic lines. But last month, Uhuru arrived in the lakeside city to a grand reception as thousands flocked major roads to welcome him. Because of his new-found camaraderie with the Opposition leader, the President now enjoys the affection of many Opposition supporters. It is, however, at the lakeside region where he is viewed most warmly considering that barely a year ago he was the least welcome of guests. Mock inauguration At the height of electioneering in 2017 and the aftermath of the twin presidential polls, the rivalry between Uhuru and Raila threatened to push Kenya towards the edge of the precipice. Further dividing the nation was the controversial mock swearing in of the former prime minister as the “people’s president” at Uhuru Park, Nairobi, on January 30, last year. The election dispute led to protests where Raila supporters chanted anti-Uhuru and anti-Jubilee slogans and displayed placards with messages of rebellion against the government. Opposition politicians, especially from Nyanza and Coast  regions, made scathing attacks against the President both in public and in Parliament. But March 9, Uhuru and Raila stood on the footsteps of Harambee House and declared a truce, which symbolised by the now famous handshake. This had a twin effect. Historical disputes First, it ended the post-election hostility and helped set the nation on the path of peace. It also has the potential of ending historical disputes, by unifying a people torn apart by the rivalry of their fathers — first President Jomo Kenyatta and  first Vice President Jaramogi Oginga Odinga — more than 50 years ago. Uhuru’s visit to Kisumu to launch projects last year was the antithesis of a similar visit by his father in 1969, which led to the death of 11 people when the President’s security fired into a rowdy crowd during the opening of the Nyanza Provincial General Hospital popularly known as “Russia”. The “Kisumu massacre”, as it came to be known, followed the assassination of Tom Mboya and the death of Foreign Affairs minister Argwings Kodhek in an accident. Secondly, the handshake gave Raila’s political career a new lease of life at a time many thought it was on its deathbed. During Uhuru’s Nyanza visit, he confirmed the former Premier was indeed part of the government, while the latter assured residents that the tap of development was now wide open. Last October, Raila was appointed African Union’s High Representative of Infrastructure Development in Africa, in what was seen as part of the perks of the handshake. It is no wonder then that Uhuru, whom they now fondly refer to as “Ouru wuod Jomo” (Uhuru the son of Jomo) now enjoys massive support from the people of Nyanza. Even clerics in the region make a point of offering special prayers for the two leaders in public functions and in places of worship. Local traditional Ohangla musicians have composed songs in praise of Uhuru and Raila, who is affectionately referred to as Baba by his supporters. Several shops, hotels and public service vehicles have been christened “Handshake” while mothers name their newborns after the President and the former Premier. Since the handshake, Uhuru has visited the region twice and in both occasions received a rousing welcome. When he visited Kisumu county to launch the Universal Health Coverage Programme on December 13, thousands of excited residents jostled to have a glimpse of him. At Kondele grounds, the epicentre of political theatre in Kisumu, Uhuru was warmly received by a huge crowd. After attending the burial of the former chairman for Youth Fund Bruce Odhiambo in Muhoroni, the President made an impromptu visit to the Kisumu pier before heading for late lunch with Raila. The visits have come with several goodies, among them the improvement of roads, revival of collapsed industries and renewed efforts to eradicate hyacinth from Lake Victoria. Sense of hope Nyanza leaders say the handshake has impacted positively on development and on the legislative agenda in Parliament. Suna East MP Junet Mohammed said the handshake is a major milestone in the country’s history. He said the prevailing peace allows Kenyans to do business without  interference. “This handshake is not just about development but if the President wants to initiate projects, he is welcome in Nyanza,” he said. Nyando MP Jared Okello said the handshake had given the people of the region a  new sense of hope. Last week, Raila launched a 4,000 tonne hyacinth dredger that would also help eradicate the weed in Lake Victoria and bring back life to the dormant Kisumu pier. Ahero-Isebania, Miwani- Mamboleo and Ukwala-Ugunja roads are also among the infrastructure project that are being improved. Uhuru has also ordered the payment of cane farmers in the sugarcane growing zones. During his two visits, the President reiterated the need for an all-inclusive governance system, as opposed to the current winner-takes-it-all format, which has been interpreted as a tacit approval of Raila’s call for a referendum to amend the Constitution.