The government has been asked to fast-track the process of setting up office  of financial ombudsman to help resolve debates on capping of bank interest rates. A researcher at the Institute of Economic Affairs (IEA) Protus Shigoli said the new office would help to address consumer protection issues and tame “commercial banks’ predatory activities.” Draft Financial Markets Conduct Bill 2018, published last year, seeks to have a financial sector ombudsman set up to harmonise the functioning of the financial markets. The bill is concerned with supervision of the conduct of providers of financial products in relation to financial sector customers. Shigoli says in his Interest Rate Capping: Interest Rate Capping: Implication to the Private Sector study that the push by players in the economy to control interest rates points to an existing problem that must be addressed. Holistic approach “A holistic approach to address the architecture of the financial sector should be done to incorporate all financial service providers in finding a working solution to provision of accessible and affordable credit,” he adds. Once put in place, Shigoli says the ombudsman will ensure Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) is allowed to exercise its mandate of regulating the banking sector. Because a borrower risk is an important composition of the interest rate, the researcher is of the opinion a review of risk profiling framework should be conducted. “This should also be based on the sector-wide risk profiles by improving the working structure of commercial banks and credit reference bureaus to be able to accurately determine dependable lending risk assessments and reports”. Interest rates capping is a strategy adopted by governments for varied reasons to address market failure. Super agency Last year, National Treasury Cabinet secretary Henry Rotich proposed the setting up of a new super agency that will prevent banks from exploiting consumers through unscrupulous practices, including the loading of excessive interest and charges on loans. Rotich, in a Draft Financial Markets Conduct Bill 2018 wants a Financial Markets Conduct Authority (FMCA) set up to, among other things, set the maximum rate of interest a lender can charge. Members of the agency’s board will include the Treasury Cabinet Secretary and the governor of the Central Bank of Kenya. The Bill is proposing stiff penalties, including a fine of Sh5 million for first time offenders and Sh10 million for repeat offenders who charge a borrower a rate above what is prescribed by the FMCA — effectively meaning that a bank that overcharges a large number of customers could pay up to billions of shillings in penalties .“A lender shall not charge or recover, or attempt to charge or recover from the borrower or a guarantor any amount on account of interest under the contract that exceeds the maximum rates as may be prescribed by the Authority from time to time,” the draft bill says. Interest charge The bill also bars the lenders from varying the interest charge agreed on in a credit contract during the life of a loan, unless it is due to changes in a reference rate such as the one set by the FMCA. Banks are also required to issue borrowers a pre-contract statement indicating interest rate, insurance charges, fees and commissions to be charged on a loan.