Beleaguered top-flight side Kakamega Homeboyz cast aside match fixing furore in the team to deliver a 4-0 thumping of coastal outfit Bandari at Bukhungu Stadium in Kakamega yesterday. Stand-in coach-cum-player Allan Wanga selected himself and grabbed a brace as Homeboyz broke Bandari’s unbeaten run in the 2018/19 calendar. Allegations of match fixing rocked Homeboyz early in the week as club chairman Cleophas ‘Toto’ Shimanyula delivered chilling claims that suspended coach Paul Nkata could have been colluding with a section of players to determine outcomes of matches. The Ugandan tactician, who won the SportPesa Premier League title with Tusker in 2016, consequently left the country after the ensuing heat reached incendiary levels. And Homeboyz responded to his departure with an emphatic victory. Wanga opened the scoring with a 26th minute penalty before this season’s revelation Peter Thiong’o doubled the advantage in the 57th minute. The stand-in coach then completed his brace with a well-taken goal in the 65th minute. By the 83rd minute when Homeboyz completed the rout, tongues were already wagging about Nkata and the Kakamega-based side. At Nakuru’s Afraha Stadium, defending champions Gor Mahia put their quest for an 18th title back on course with a 2-0 victory over Sony Sugar. Rwandan striker Jacques Tuyisenge scored in each half to steer K’Ogalo into fourth place on the table, eight points behind leaders Mathare United. Tuyisenge struck just 11 minutes into the game and Gor dominated the half but the sugar millers caused jitters with fast breaks and dangerous throw-ins from Enoch Agwanda. Gor grabbed a second goal 11 minutes to time through Tuyisenge again to calm nerves. At Kasarani Stadium, the slum derby pitting league leaders Mathare United and enterprising Kariobangi Sharks ended in a stalemate as both teams failed to find the back of the net. After exhilarating banter on social media from both teams it was Sharks who took the match by its scruff and should have won but sloppy finishing denied them the chance to close a nine-point gap between them and Mathare. SportPesa cup marvel Duke Abuya hit the woodwork twice in the first half with George Abege and Harrison Mwendwa also coming close but Mathare were fortunate to still hold their unbeaten run after 10 fixtures. A last-minute tumble by substitute Sydney Lokale in Mathare’s box after  coming together with Johnstone Omurwa drew penalty shouts that were dismissed by the referee. In Kericho, Zoo FC recorded their second victory of the season when they beat AFC Leopards 1-0 to move out of relegation zone.