Where did you meet? Mercy: We met at Valentine School of Cake Nakuru, where I was a student and Chris was the supervisor of Valentine Cake House the same branch. How long did you date? We dated for two years and went through courtship for one year. What was memorable about your proposal? It was on April 14, 2017; Chris’ birthday. I had prepared him a surprise dinner when he changed the entire thing to the proposal. He lied to me that he had a tattoo done on his left arm, so I insisted to see it. He agreed, but on condition that I stood up and closed my eyes. I did so and when he asked me to open my eyes, there he was on one knee and he popped the question. How was it planning the wedding? We had two wedding committees; one for our parents and their friends, and another one for our friends. The committees assisted us in raising some of the money and organising the wedding. Why did you choose Nakuru for the wedding venue and did you face any challenges as a result? We agreed that we should be joined in the church where Chris fellowships (Mountain of Deliverance-Free Area) because I would eventually join his church after the union. The main challenge was distance, as my dad insisted that I should be picked from home – Naivasha, which is about an hour and 30 minutes from Nakuru. The second challenge was time. The women who were supposed to receive me at home arrived two hours later than the agreed time. Did your wedding day turn out the way you wanted it to? Not 100 per cent, but the most important part was the consecration ceremony and having our families and friends witnessing. What were some of the mishaps? The event started late. We did not have enough time for the reception and photo session. Secondly, our food budget was to cater for 400, but had to feed 1,000 plus. Also, the car that was to transport my parents did not come, so, some people had to be inconvenienced for them to get a car. The same happened to the groom and a few others, so, he had to share with his parents and the best man too. What about the highlights? The sermon by Rev Dr Francis Oracle on marriage and how we should live together really touched our hearts. I also loved the fact that the weather favoured us. The cake was amazing, perfectly done thanks to Valentine Cake House. Also, the higher than expected turnout was touching. Who was your MC and what advice can you share on choosing a wedding MC? It was MC Fortune, who is my high school friend. We met way back in 2009 in Makueni county. When choosing an MC, go for someone you are comfortable with and tell them the dos and don’ts on your wedding day without making them feel like you are interfering with their work. Pick someone who respects your demands and has experience in the job. What other advice can you give couples planning a wedding? There is life after the wedding, work with what you have, but bring out the best in your big day. Pray together and plan together. This will train both of you on how to make decisions together later in marriage.