Grace Angela and Rodgers Ndegwa @PeopleSport11 Home player John Karanja, beat 183 players drawn from 22 clubs including 24 professionals, to emerge victorious in the 2019 Nginyo Investments-sponsored National Caddies tournament at Muthaiga Golf Club on Monday. Karanja, a regular player in the Kenya Amateur Golf Championship (KAGC) series, fired one over par 72, to beat Kelvin Barasa of the Great Rift Valley Resort, Naivasha by five shots. Barasa posted 77 gross. Playing off handicap three, Karanja, bogeyed the par four-first hole, before making two back-to-back birdies at the third and fourth. He, however, three putted the fifth to drop his second shot of the day. He made a birdie at the par five-seventh to finish the front nine on one under par. “The first nine is usually very difficult so I tried to protect the two birdies I had though was very disappointed with the three putts at the fifth hole,’’ said Karanja. He picked a birdie at the 10th, but dropped a shot at the 12th after driving to the fairway bunker.  A double at the 14th after hitting a tree on the right followed by a three putts almost ruined his chances of winning the event though he made an easy birdie at the 18th for a one over par 72 to claim the beautiful Nginyo Investments Trophy. “I would like to prepare for the Muthaiga Open and Sigona Bowl in February and March,’’ said Karanja, who last year won both the Tanzania Caddies championship in Kiligolf Resort Arusha and the Uganda Caddie championship. Railway’s Patrick Kariuki fired an impressive nett 65 to clinch the nett title ahead of Muthaiga’s Geoffrey Kiiru on 67. In third place was John Kamau of Limuru also on 67 nett. Winning the nines were J Nyanduru and M Njoroge on nett 36 each while J Gitau and N Waweru won the longest drive and nearest to pin crowns respectively.  In the ladies section, Sigona’s Mary Gathoni retained her title after posting 85 gross, winning by 10 shots from Mary Rogate of Muthaiga. The nett title went to Leah Kahora of Ruiru Sports Club who carded 77 nett to win by one shot from Innocent Mukami and Margaret Wairimu. The nine winners were P Nduta and Mary Wanjiru on 36 and 30 nett while Sarah Bisera and J Waweru won the longest drive and nearest to pin prizes.