Martin Mwita @MwitaMartin Plans to have Kenya Airways take over the management of the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA) have faced resistance from Kenya Airport Authority (KAA) employees and Kenya Aviation Allied Workers (Kawu). Kawu, which represents staff and other aviation and logistics companies at the airport, yesterday issued a seven-days strike notice calling for resignation of KAA managing director Jonny Andersen who they have accused of “auctioning” the authority in the deal. This comes as Kenya Airways (KQ) moves to put final touches on a proposal that will see it manage JKIA operations. Dubbed “Project Simba”, the deal is targeted at re-aligning KQ’s operations to similar modules as its main rivals among them Ethiopian Airline which have full control of their hubs. On October 3 last yea, KAA received a Privately Initiated Investment Proposal (PIIP) from KQ requesting that the airline be granted a concession to operate, maintain and develop JKIA. It involves the formation of a special purpose vehicle (SPV) specifically dedicated to operating, managing and developing JKIA for 30 years. Kawu yesterday, however, opposed the move which it says will affect more than 20,000 people among them KAA staff, duty free shops employees and eight other entities interconnected in the airport operations. Kawi secretary general Moss Ndiema accused the KAA chief of duping employees in the deal that will see hundreds declared redundant, while terming the arrangement a scam. Ground operations The union has threatened to lead its members in paralysing operations at all major airports in the country. “We are not in support of the much hyped JKIA takeover by KQ. If Andersen will not be out of KAA within seven days, we are going to ground operations,” Ndiema said during a protest by Kawu members at the JKIA. It is proposed that the SPV be a subsidiary of a company which is protected from the parent company’s (KQ) financial risk. The proposal gives JKIA staff three options which are; being seconded to the SPV on the same terms for a period of 12 months after which the KQ firm  will choose who to retain. Transfer of staff to the SPV with employees required to agree to a possible reduction in benefits is the second option.  Those who fail to agree would be transferred back to KAA where they could be declared redundant at the authority’s costs. Option three requires KAA to make all JKIA employees redundant at the outset to allow a new recruitment process under fresh contracts.