Insiders say a first oath was administered in a private ceremony days before the Uhuru Park event that shook  the nation Mukalo Kwayera @kwayeram A year ago yesterday, Opposition leader Raila Odinga, spurred on by  fiery hotheads took a self-enthroning oath as the “people’s president”. Though alive to the grave consequences of the treasonous act, Raila, like in the movie, Where the Eagles Dare, staged a solo act— after being abandoned by Opposition comrades Kalonzo Musyoka, Moses Wetang’ula and Musalia Mudavadi—to claim what he called his stolen presidency from President Uhuru Kenyatta in last year’s  election. Tensions soared after the National Super Alliance (Nasa) led by Raila boycotted the October 26 repeat poll after the Supreme Court nullified Uhuru’s August 8 election following a successful petition. Ironically, it was this event that is the likely genesis of the handshake between Raila and Uhuru nearly six months later. The jaw-dropping truce caught not just the duo’s confidants, but the entire country off-guard. Cynics were dismissive, while other  politicians and ordinary Kenyans took the let’s wait-and-see disposition. Immediate impact But like a magic wand, the handshake immediately had an impact, calming the political arena.  And the rest is now water under the bridge and Raila is now firmly entrenched at the centre of the country’s political matrix where he and Uhuru through the Building Bridges Initiative are re-engineering the country’s political infrastructure to cleanse it of the toxicity that has polluted it the better part of 55 years of independence, including pushing for inclusivity in governance through what now increasingly looks like a foregone conclusion to have a referendum that could usher in an expanded Executive. While the fence-mending  has radically changed the country’s politics, it has upset the apple cart in both the ruling Jubilee and Opposition Nasa. In Jubilee, Deputy President William Ruto who was the heir apparent and natural successor, courtesy of UhuRuto pact ahead of of 2013 election, is no longer at ease. On the other hand, the political truce has stirred new love for Uhuru in hitherto hostile Raila Nyanza base.  In the same measure it has thrown into disarray, those who were angling to succeed Raila within Nasa and his home turf. For Kenya, the oath gave birth to a reconciliation and positivity but also uncertainty and even trepidation.  And back to the eventful oath day, January 30, People Daily has established that Raila clandestinely took oath in which he declared himself ‘people’s president’ two days before he publicly repeated the same feat at Uhuru Park. According to sources, Raila took the oath on Sunday, January 28, at a back room of his Karen home in the presence of a coterie of inner circle as witnesses. The oath-taking had originally been earmarked for December 10, two days before Jamhuri Day, at the Muthaiga home of businessman Jimmy Wanjigi. However, the plans were foiled after organisers established that the State through spooks and intelligence had learned of the scheme. The swearing-in event has remained a closely guarded secret   though, in an interview with Citizen TV last month, the former premier alluded to the event in passing, only saying it was done as a tactical pre-emptive move in case things got derailed at Uhuru Park. Breakfast Present at the function handled by Raila’s daughter Winnie were Siaya Senator James Orengo, Westlands MP Tim Wanyonyi, Ruaraka MP TJ Kajwang, Makadara MP George Aladwa, lawyer Miguna Miguna and Wanjigi. The entire occasion was captured on video by a specially-trusted hired crew only known to the Raila family, the sources revealed. Besides Raila,only Kajwang’, Miguna, Wanjigi ,Orengo and Winnie knew of the rendezvous in advance and what was to take place that morning. The rest had merely been invited for an “early morning breakfast,” we learnt. “When we arrived we were told Raila had gone out jogging. We started arranging our equipment under Winnie’s guidance at a backroom that looked like a disused gymnasium. From that room, we could see everything that was taking place outside and in the living room as well. Shortly after us, Orengo and Miguna arrived,” said one filming crew member. Not long after that, the source disclosed, a sweating Raila popped into the room donning a track suit accompanied by three aides. After   exchanging pleasantries, he excused himself and entered into an inside room — presumably to take a shower — only to return after 45 minutes later dressed in the same attire that he was to wear during the Jamhuri Park oath-taking ceremony. Some of the politicians present told People Daily that it was while having breakfast that Raila ambushed them with the oath-taking mission. Golden paper “As we were still pondering over the matter, an evidently anxious Wanjigi entered the room with a carefully wrapped golden paper in his right hand and announced to Raila: “Baba, here it is. Have a look sir,” one of the invited politicians recalled. They later learned that the wrapped paper contained the oath that Raila was to shortly recite. Wanjigi, they established, had been tasked with identifying trusted lawyers to draft, and have the oath printed. “The oath was passed to each one of us. We agreed it had been properly drafted,” said the politician. The wordings were the same as the ones Raila uttered at Uhuru Park two days later, proclaiming himself the people’s president, our source revealed. “We were surprised by what took place on Tuesday (January 30) at Uhuru Park when the tight security forces surrounding the grounds pulled out of the venue.When Raila entered the place and took the same oath he had taken two days earlier dressed in the same clothes, again surrounded by Kajwang’ and Miguna,” a camera man now reflects. Prior to the January 30 swearing, tension had gripped the country amid fears of violence after the State through then Attorney General   Githu Muigai outlawed the meeting and threatened to have treason charges preferred against Raila and his handlers. Sources within Kenya’s military top brass divulged that the country’s security had been placed on high alert for any eventuality and firm instructions issued out to have Raila and his team arrested and tried for treason. Mock swearing However, the sources revealed, a truce through the efforts of former Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo, a Raila ally who was then in Kenya  and top officials from the US Embassy in Nairobi was reached on the morning of January 30 to have the police who  were swarming Uhuru Park withdrawn to allow Raila to conduct his mock swearing-in ceremony if only to appease his followers who had defiantly crowded the venue. The catch was that thereafter to immediately embark on the process that would eventually lead to the Handshake. “It was going to be messy. Had Obasanjo and the Americans not stepped in, Kenya would not be what it is now,” said our source.  Obasanjo and the Americans spent the whole of Monday (January 29) day and night shuttling between Raila and top State officials, mediating for a truce. By 10.30am the following day, they had achieved their mission, that is when Raila was allowed to go and appease his mass of supporters at Uhuru Park,” the military sources privy to the on-goings at the time disclosed. He said it only after Raila pledged “to play ball” that security agents were directed to withdraw from Uhuru Park.  A legislator who had taken an active part in both oaths told People Daily that no one in their team was privy to what led to the withdrawal of the security officers and its aftermath have remained a closely-guarded affair between Raila and a small group of top State officers.