In my younger years, I always thought horror movies were fun to watch. You know the intense suspense and the hair raising scares. Some movies still are fun to watch. Camp grounds make perfect settings for horror films. Usually a trio who go for camping, and lo and behold everything goes hay wire. Naivasha is a fun place for that road trip weekend with friends. Well, before that, most people know the famous camping sites such as CrayFish, or Fisherman’s Camp.  They are all great places, but if you are looking for something extra and a new experience, then you ought to try Oloiden camp site. Remember my paranoia from the insane movies I have watched before? Hold on to that thought. I have never been camping before and I wanted to try it and oh boy was it quite the adventure. I still can’t believe it, because the planning and the reservations all came impromptu. Lake Oloiden is a volcanic crater lake, located a few kilometers from Lake Naivasha. To get to the camp ground you have to drive past Camp Carnelleys on a tarmac road called the Moi South Lake road. The plan was to actually go there for the Easter holidays, but then after much deliberation, we opted for last weekend. Plus, we figured it’s off peak, so we’ll get to enjoy most of the amenities within the place without the festive crowd. Naivasha is the closest place to Nairobi, and to get there takes about an hour on a lazy afternoon. It’s always an old tradition to stop by the escarpment along the way, take a few photos, maybe pop open some drinks and take in the beautiful sights of the Great Rift Valley. By the time we got there it was already dusk. We picked out the quad tent that accommodates four people with two mattresses for Sh4,500.  They have beddings but if you carry yours then the prices are slightly lower. There were only a couple of guys and some foreigners in the camp, so we picked the furthest point for our tent as we wanted some privacy. Plus it was near the lake. Good thing the lake is manned by an electric fence as we did not plan on hosting nocturnal visitors from the lake. A big convenience is the proximity of a restaurant and bar, just next to the campsite. It felt like a good evening for some nyama choma. But that’s not all they have in their menu. Chicken or fresh fish and even pizza is available at your request. You can also bring your own food items and grills.  Drinks and beverages are served at the bar. The site is polite enough to light up a bonfire, which I thought was pretty cool. You can chill and tell stories and exchange experiences over drinks. The same night around four in the morning, I was woken up by strange noises. Not so far from our tent. It would quiet down then eerily start all over again. I was very unsettled by the noise, plus the trees scretching in the wind made it unbearable. I was certain that something was lurking in the dark. The following morning, I couldn’t imagine spending another night there. My friends thought I was acting like a big baby. I seriously thought big foot or murderous villagers were on the loose to get us all. Karanja, one of the camp’s attendants explained the sound came from the noisy hippos in the lake. Phew! Most of all I enjoyed the fresh air and the beautiful view. The crimson sunset and the sunrise in the morning were especially captivating. For sanitation the camp offers basic facilities. The bathrooms have hot showers and there’s plenty of water and that’s about it. I can say, albeit the short stay at Oloiden, my perception on camping completely changed. The place is scenic and breathtaking. Not only is it a place for family and friends, but it’s just as ideal for weddings and team building exercises. It’s an outdoor adventure spot that I could get used to.