Africa has 38 countries with numerous ports located strategically along its coastlines. More than 90 per cent of Africa’s global trade conducted by sea. Africa’s ports handle about six per cent of the global water-borne traffic and about three per cent of the world container traffic. Here are Africa’s busiest cargo ports according to Africa Marine Services 1. Saldanha Bay: South Africa Saldanha Bay is the busiest port on the continent and it is located on the western coast of the country. It is regarded as the deepest harbour in the southern hemisphere. The bay is protected by an artificial water breaker that stretches 3.1 kilometres. Today, the port handles iron ore and has an annual cargo volume of 72 million tonnes. Port control operates 24 hours a day. A full diving service is available for ship inspection and other services but ship repair is limited mainly to the fishing industry. 2. Tanger Port: Morocco Tanger Med I has two container terminals with rated capacity of three million twenty-foot equivalent units (TEUs). Both terminals have with a 1,600 linear metres (m) of quay, a socking capacity of 80 hectares and a depth of 18m. The port receives the largest container ships in the world. In 2014, the Tanger Med port beat its own record by achieving a traffic of more than 3.1 million TEUs earning it a 46th ranking in the world’s best ports and 2nd in Africa. Today, the Tanger Med port is connected to 169 ports and 68 countries. 3. Damieta Port: Egypt Damietta port in Egypt is the second busiest port on the continent. It is located 8.5 kilometres (km) west of the River Nile. The port and its facilities occupy 11.8 square kms and has a modern container terminal for handling various types of cargo. Damietta port handles 27 million tonnes of cargo volume each year. 4. Apapa Port: Nigeria The port of Apapa is in the Nigerian city of Lagos. It is an economic focal point as it handles up to 25 million tonnes of cargo per year. With area coverage of 44 hectares; six berths with a depth of 10.5m and total quay length of 950m, the Port of Apapa Container Terminal also contains 6,400 m2 of covered storage. The container yard has capacity for 19,500 TEUs, and it contains 298 reefer plugs. 5. Port of Casablanca; Morocco The port of Casablanca is the largest port in Morocco and one of the largest artificial ports in the world. It handles about 38 per cent of all cargo traffic in Morocco and can accommodate up to 35 ships at the same time. The port trades an estimated cargo volume of 24 million tonnes each year. it also has the capacity to hold more than 3.5 million containers in its 605 hectares of land. Casablanca’s port carries out a sales turnover of more than 894 million Moroccan Dirhams. 6. East Port Said: Egypt The Port is strategically located along the coast of Mediterranean Sea and on the northern side of the Suez Canal. It covers a length of 9.5 km and has an estimated depth of 18.5m. East Port Said Port facilitates the passage of shipping vessels to and from the harbour. This, therefore, allows the free flow of the Suez Canal convoys. The Port is bordered also from South by the industrial zone, from East by El- Malaha Lake, and from the Western verge of Suez Canal inside the frontiers of Port Said Province. 7. Mombasa Port: Kenya The port of Mombasa is the busiest and largest port in East and Central Africa. It is directly linked to more than 80 ports worldwide. The port’s container terminal has a capacity of more than one million TEUs. It handles more than 21 million tonnes of cargo per year. Container traffic through Mombasa Port increased by 2.4 per cent in 2016 after the opening of a new section of the second container terminal. 8. Skikda Port: Algeria Skikda, known as “Phillipeville” until the end of the war of independence in 1962, is a port city located in the Gulf of Stora, north-east of Algeria. At the edge of the Mediterranean Sea, in the wilaya of Skikda, it has an important independent commercial port, ranked third in Algeria after Algiers and Oran. It provides regular maritime passenger transport links with two European cities. The port of Skikda serves Genoa in Italy and Marseille in France, with the Algerie Ferries company. 9. Pointe Noire: Congo Pointe Noire is an important gateway to Brazzaville and it is transhipment point for the ports of Matadi, Luanda, Cabinda, and Soyo. The 65-year-old Port has 2,135m of quay in the commercial zone, and 726m of quay in the logistics oil zone. The container terminal has extension of 31 hectares for stocking space on Quai Gis one of the deep-water ports in West Africa with a draft of up to 16m and can accommodate larger vessels up to 300m of length and capacity of 8,000 TEUs. 10. Port Abidjan: Ivory Coast The port of Abidjan is one of the region’s principal shipping hubs. Around 60 per cent of goods entering and exiting land-locked Mali, Burkina Faso and Niger do so through Port Abidjan. Merchandise traffic and vessel traffic rose to 11.2 million tonnes and 1,513 stop-overs respectively, compared to nine million tonnes and 834 stopovers through June 2011. The port has a land surface area of eight million m2, water surface area of 10 million m2 and 6,000m of quays and berths.