TnT is a Nairobi-based rap duo comprising Timmy (Tim Ahere) and Twenny (Allan Olao). The duo has been among the most consistent hip-hop acts from 254 in the recent times and they are gearing up for a huge year ahead. They get intimate with Alfayo Onyango Alfayo Onyango @O_Alfayo How would you describe yourselves as? We don’t describe ourselves, we describe the environment and surroundings around us and have people make their own deductions, which in turn leads to them making their own conclusions about us. However, we are true mirrors of the global society, especially as far as hip-hop is concerned. How did you get into music? It was the other way… Music got to us. Ha-ha-ha. What is your affiliation with Vice Life Entertainment? Vice Life Entertainment is TnT’s parent label company and the apple doesn’t fall far away from the tree. We are the duo entrusted within the label to best relay their (our) views to the public and we do this through our music. Do you think doing shows constantly in Kenya will give you the international exposure you need? We feel doing shows week in, week out makes any artiste a bigger artiste anywhere in the world. That is why we would not like to confine ourselves within the Kenyan borders. When was TnT the group formed? The name TnT was coined sometime in 2014, but slowly evolved into a rap duo when we quickly realised how well the name fitted the bill. We both had previous experience in music and had worked together countless times to brew the chemistry that is widely visible to anyone with access to Internet, TV and radio. How did your collaborations with Khaligraph Jones come about and was it a route to get your music on mainstream media? We would say real will always recognise real. We were literally in the studio working on our own music when Khali came in and quickly picked up on the energy around the place and wouldn’t leave until we had gotten something done. We already have two unreleased songs with Khaligraph. We do not tailor our music in anyway to fit any form of media. We, however, find ways to make the media make room for us because of the cultural influence we have amongst Kenya’s middle-class youth. Individually, what ambitions do you have in music and life in general? We’re mainly focused in making TnT the main individual in this regard. All of our individual aspirations have been put aside and are well merged and outlined across our music. We have no individual goals; just team goals that are working hard and staying focused and committed to what we do. What inspires you to make the music you make? We are hugely inspired by our surroundings, experiences, struggles, upbringing and achievements, among others. Everything we speak about is factual and true so, it’s not hard to come by. We feel as though as long as ‘things happen’, we will in turn always have relevant topics to champion for in our music. The minute you start thinking hard about what message you want to bring across, then you’re already lost. Words should come easy for any true creative in this field. So, what next for TnT? World domination?