Roy Lumbe in Dar es Salaam Kariobangi Sharks will become the second East African team after Gor Mahia to face an English Premier League side when they take on Everton in Kenya after winning the third edition of the SportPesa Cup. Sharks laid their hands on the trophy after beating Bandari FC 1-0 in what was an all-Kenyan final. After a goal-less opening half, Harrison Mwendwa ignited the final with a stylish low shot after 60 minutes to give the slum boys and advantage over their Kenyan counterparts. Sharks, who were making their second appearance in the competition, swept aside Bandari after a fine display of attacking football from Duke Abuya and Mwendwa. Bandari had been the best team in the opening half with William Wadri, Yemi Mwana and David King’atua constantly running rings around the Sharks box but they failed to utilise their chances. Sharks were indebted to their goalkeeper John Oyemba who made a number of brilliant saves as the first half ended 0-0. After the break, the slum boys took the contest to Bandari with Abuya and Mwendwa linking up well. Sharks controlled the midfield with crisp passing from Abuya and Mwendwa with Patilah Omotto tasked with dictating play from deep. That pressure saw them rewarded on the hour mark. From Bandari goalkeeper Faruk Shikalo’s goal kick, the dockers failed to get onto the first ball and the second ball fell to Abuya who laid a defence-splitting pass to Mwendwa. The diminutive winger shrugged off a challenge from Bandari defender Bernard Odhiambo to slot in between Shikalo’s legs for what turned out to be the match winner. The slum boys, who have conceded the fewest goals in the SportPesa Premier League, then stayed compact at the back and controlled the game to claim the win which comes with a Sh3 million prize as well as a clash with Everton. “The game was intense. I was unwell but I managed to get a goal and win it for the team,” said Mwendwa. Abuya and Wadri were the tournament’s best scorer while Mwendwa was crowned the Most Valuable Player after scoring in the final and setting up two in the opening match against Yanga. Mbao FC goalkeeper Metacha Mnata won the Golden Glove after conceding only one goal in the tournament. Meanwhile, Simba finished third after beating Mbao 5-4 on post-match penalties following a barren draw in regulation time.