Githinji Mwangi and Murimi Mutiga @PeopleDailyKe Eric Mwandiki is a worried man. He is fidgety and the look of fear is clearly etched on his face.  The source of his agitation is a crumbled note in his hand from his 13-year-old son who wants to join the Al Shabaab that is responsible for several attacks in Kenya, the most recent being the Nairobi’s 14 Riverside Drive attack which left 21 people dead. Mwandiki claims his son ran away from home in Kutus Mjini, Kirinyaga county, to join the terror group in Somalia.  He says his son walked out of their home on Thursday night at around 7.30pm, leaving his one-year-old brother alone. The Standard Eight Pupil at Bridges School in Kutus, scribbled the chilling note in capital letters and even had the decency to apologise for stealing money for “fare” to Somalia. “Mum please forgive me but I had to go, sacrifice my life for your own safety because someone will kill you if I don’t go there. I took the money just for fare I love you all goodbye,’’ he wrote. It is the few words that have given his family grief and sent detectives in a rush against time to find him before it is too late. Police in Kirinyaga are now investigating the teenager after he was arrested in Kimunye town, about 7km from his home. Mwandiki said his son—the first born—had developed strange behaviour in the recent past and had started to keep to himself. His academic performance had also deteriorated, which worried his teachers and parents. His father says he was always either position one or two in class but he had dropped to position 21, causing concern. Speaking in his workshop at Kutus town, Mwandiki said he was alarmed by the boy’s behaviour and he consulted church members and the pastor for counsel. Online recruitment Mwandiki said that the boy usually used her mother’s phone and in the recent past, he had downloaded the Quran and deleted all pictures and messages in the phone. Social media is a common recruitment avenue for terror  groups. Mwandiki, a born-again Christian at KAG church termed the boy’s change of behaviour as very scary and called the police to investigate the matter. “We want him to come home and explain to us why he had decided to walk away from us,” he said. Kirinyaga east OCPD Hussein Hassan confirmed that  police are holding the boy after he was picked at Kimunye town loitering at night alone. “It’s true we have the boy in our custody and he’s being grilled on whether he has been in touch with any other person who may have spoilt his mind with alien ideas. We are going to hold him until we establish it’s safe to release him back to his parents,’’ he said. He said police are questioning the boy’s  parents to establish exactly what happened before the boy disappeared. Officers from the children’s  office and local detectives  will question him to establish whether he was being radicalised. The police boss said they are in possession of the note left behind by the boy and want to establish whether he was in communication with any other person outside the family circle. In January 2017, UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres estimated that more than half of Al-Shabaab fighters may be children while a Somali taskforce recorded the recruitment of 4,213 children—almost all boys—into Al-Shabaab between April 1, 2010 and July 31, 2016. Rural children Last year it was reported that the  terror group had embarked on an aggressive child recruitment campaign in rural parts of Somalia. In a report released by Human Rights Watch in January last year, Al Shaabab was said to be taking rural children from their parents and forcing them to join their cause. Over the past decade, they had recruited thousands of children who have been indoctrinated and sent to fight for them. It is this glaring statistics and the changing face of terror in Kenya, as witnessed in the Riverside 14 attack where those who carried out the attack were from several parts of the country and not Somalia, as has been the case in the past, that has police worried about this case.