Bernice Mbugua @BerniceMuhindi The Kenya National Examinations Council (Knec) has cancelled results for 3,427 candidates involved in malpractices in last year’s Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) examination. It was, however, a relief for 1,275 candidates from nine centres, who were cleared after their results were initially witheld. Knec chairman George Magoha yesterday said the council made “the painful but necessary” decision to cancel the results after conducting “a fair, thorough and objective” investigation into cheating allegations. Results Candidates whose results were cancelled have, however, been offered the opportunity to register for this year’s KCSE exam before the registration deadline of February 15, instead of having to wait for three years as provided for in the law. “There was overwhelming evidence that 3,427 candidates in 44 centres were guilty of having been involved in exam irregularities in 2018 KCSE. Investigations show that the malpractices took place due to negligence, commission or omission of contracted professionals who did not perform their roles as per the guidelines for management of KCSE,” Magoha told the press at Knec headquarters in Nairobi. The affected centres are in Machakos, Meru, Isiolo, Turkana, West Pokot, Kericho, Narok, Elgeyo Marakwet, Bungoma, Kisumu, Kisii, Homa Bay, Migori, Garissa, Wajir and Mandera counties. Knec withheld results of 53 exam centres to allow for more time for further investigations. The number of students whose results were cancelled rose from 1,205 in 2017 to 3,427 last year, with Magoha placing blame on the administration of the exam. Saying international best practices were applied in the investigations, Magoha said they detected collusion in exams by scrutinising for patterns of similar wrong responses from candidates. Magoha revealed that the investigation process discovered glaring collusion among the  candidates’ answer scripts including identical errors in calculations, correct responses after incorrect working and identical wording often with identical unusual grammar or vocabulary. argued that the DPP’s application is an afterthought and simply a reaction to her genuine and valid concerns regarding the legality and propriety of the appointment and participation of the Queen’s Counsel. “The two counsels have been participating in the proceedings since August 2018 when the cause was arose and the petition was filed. An allegation of conflict of interest is not a moving target to be decided on a whim,” she argued. According to her DPP is abusing the court process to prejudice embarrass and delay the fair hearing of the petition by engaging in in frivolous sideshows and vexatious applications. Mwilu’s petition is being heard by a five Judge bench which consists of Hellen Omondi, Mumbi Ngugi, Chacha Mwita, Francis Tuiyot, and William Musyoka. DCJ Philomena Mwilu moved to the high court in August and obtained temporary orders stopping her prosecution at the magistrate’s court. She is being accused of abuse of office, accepting money in the form of a gift, failure to pay taxes, and obtaining by false pretext security belonging to Imperial Bank, which was placed under receivership. According to the charges, she gave herself Sh12 million between August 15, 2013 and October 23, 2015 at Imperial Bank headquarters in Westlands. She is also accused of influencing the bank’s receiver manager to discharge two titles charged to the bank to obtain a Sh60 million loan.The DCJ is also accused of failing to pay taxes amounting to Sh3.1 million for property she bought in Nairobi and forgery of a KRA stamp duty declaration. The bench will hear the applications from the parties on Thursday.