It’s three weeks since Caroline Gikunda’s 10-year-old son joined boarding school. She misses him already. As a single mother, she has been close to her son, Preston Nguyo. The 10 years she has been with him have not been a walk in the park though. But the 37-year-old says she has tried her best to lead by example and be a role model and a mentor to her son. At his age, Preston can clearly connect the dots. “If you must teach him the fear of God, he must see it in you. He has taught me to be a better practising Catholic and will often remind me what the Bible says,” she explains. Curious questions Caroline, an entrepreneur who runs Alpha Charlie solutions, a company that deals with supplying and transporting construction materials, says she teaches her son the importance of planning and hard work. “We plan most things together. I share with him the means of achieving the goals and when it happens, I share the results,” she says. However, it has not been easy, especially when curiosity gets the better part of him. “There are questions he asks that I know are best answered by a father or father figures. We have worked on a communication relationship with his biological father and they speak often on phone,” she says. “His maternal uncles have been helpful too. His godfather back in church has also played a big role in shaping him up. His teacher in his former school who was a good friend to him has had several mentorship sessions with him whenever he needs a man to man talk,” she explains. “There are few times we disagree and don’t know how to go about it without causing each other more pain. There are friends and habits he would start keeping and as a mother, I must fight and dismantle them. At times he may not understand why I want him to drop his friend or stay away from a phone game he loves so much. But this is all part of parenting,” she adds. Caroline says it is important for parents to spend as much time as possible with their children. “Preston and I have a tight bond, and we have a lot in common. We both love the outdoors and most Sunday afternoons would find us at some pool. While at home, he loves chess, which he taught me how to play, and draft too,” she says. “He loves blending juices, and I keep him company and cheer him on as he makes his favourite juices.” According to Caroline, the secret to parenting is that children learn better by seeing than they do by hearing. “Don’t just sit and dictate. Do what you would like your children to do. Be the example. If you need to have them know it’s hygienic to brush teeth before going to bed, do it—and do it with them,” she explains. Many hats In the presence of many, applause his good deeds. It gives him the self-esteem and confidence he needs to face in life. “Discourage his weak points when he is alone. Encourage his strong points in public,” she adds. So, what has motherhood taught her? “I learnt that motherhood is a full-time job that makes you wear many professional hats. As a mother, I am equipped with a mini-chemist inside the house. I am a nurse that cleans and dresses wounds often. I am a teacher who finds herself giving directions and even working out mathematical equations and researching information from Google. I am a counsellor who has to assure my son that all will be well amidst his fears. To crown it all, I am his role model from, which anything good must emanate,” she says.