DPPS @PeopleDailyKe The Intergovernmental Budget and Economic Council (IBEC) meeting chaired by Deputy President William Ruto yesterday agreed the government will clear debts owed to sugarcane farmers. Consequently, Treasury will release more than Sh1.9 billion made available by the government to carry out the exercise. Addressing the IBEC 11th Ordinary Session in Karen yesterday, Treasury Cabinet secretary Henry Rotich said verification of farmers to be paid had been completed. “The pending issue would now be to come up with a long-term payment solution to farmers by millers,” said the Cabinet Secretary in a meeting that was attended by about 20 governors. Rotich said farmers would be paid directly so as to avoid the historical challenges that they have been facing. The DP urged farmers to supply sugarcane to factories that can pay. “Until there is some clarity on what would happen to these ailing sugarcane millers, farmers should deliver their produce to those entities that can honour their obligations,” said Dr Ruto. The move by the government to pay farmers, Ruto said, would offer some sufficient breather to struggling millers to tidy their balance sheets. Governors present in the deliberations were Anyang’ Nyong’o (Kisumu), Ferdinand Waititu (Kiambu), Lee Kinyanjui (Nakuru), Kiraitu Murungi (Meru), Mutahi Kahiga (Nyeri), Mwangi Wa Iria (Murang’a), Wycliffe Wangamati (Bungoma), Sospeter Ojaamong (Busia) and Francis Kimemia (Nyandarua). Pay debts Others were Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega), Joyce Laboso (Bomet), Samuel Ole Tunai (Narok), Joseph Ole Lenku (Kajiado), Stanley Kiptis (Baringo), Dhadho Godhana (Tana River), Stephen Sang (Nandi), Moses Lenolkulal (Samburu) and Wilber Otichilo (Vihiga). Nyong’o wondered why some millers were still crushing sugarcane yet unable to pay their debts. “It is time such factories were compelled to give a preference to farmers before honouring other statutory payments,” said the Kisumu Governor. Meanwhile, counties have being urged to set realistic own-source revenue targets and align their procurement plans to cashflow projections to free themselves from the pending bills burden. Controller of Budget Agnes Odhiambo said counties also need to ensure all pending bills are properly budgeted in the ensuing financial year. “Pending bills should be a first charge to the budget,” she said during the IBEC meeting. Adhiambo regretted that pending bills result in high cost of good and services and eroding investor confidence. As at June 2018, counties had a pending bill of Sh92.7 billion as compared to June 2015’s Sh37.7 billion. Pending bills The Controller of Budget noted that all was not gloomy as 15 counties had already fully budgeted for pending bills in the 2018/2019 financial year, with 23 having partly budgeted for the bills. Moreover, a total of 34 counties had finalised the verification of their pending bills and factored in payments in the financial year. Ruto called on the Controller of Budget and the Auditor General to support the remaining 13 counties to finalise and honour their liabilities.