The government has disbursed the remaining Sh36 billion free education funds to public schools through the National Education Management System (Nemis), Principal Secretary for Early Learning and Basic Education Belio Kipsang has said. He said disbursement through the new system had improved accuracy and accountability. Last week, he promised that  the government would allocate the money to cater for the Free Primary and Free Day Secondary Education programmes. Kipsang said Sh30 billion was for Free Day Secondary Education (FDSE) and it would cater for 2.6 million students whose details had been captured on Nemis, while the remaining Sh6 billion is for Free Primary Education (FPE). The PS said the ministry will not disburse capitation to students whose details are not on Nemis. He, however, said it would  take longer for schools that are yet to provide details of their students on Nemis to receive funds and urged the institutions to facilitate the process. Meanwhile, Education Cabinet secretary Amina Mohamed has asked public universities to  align their respective statutes to the University Act 2012 as amended in 2016. Respect the Act She expressed concern that some public universities had not harmonised their statutes with the Act while others had not gazetted their amended Statutes as required by the laws. Amina’s directive is contained in a Circular dated January 15 to chairpersons of Public University Councils and Vice Chancellors of Public Universities and signed by Mohamed. “This is a legal risk that requires urgent attention,” the CS says, adding that each university should immediately furnish her office on the status of the statutes in respect to the Act. “All university councils should ensure that they comply with Section(1a) of the Universities Act which requires that they approve the Statutes and cause them to be published in the Kenya Gazette,” the circular reads. The circular has been copied to the Chief Administrative Secretary and Principal Secretary for University Education and Research Prof Collette Suda and the Attorney General Justice Paul Kariuki.