Mercy Salisi @peopledailyke Motorists in Nairobi should brace themselves for a major snarl-up in the Central Business District (CBD) on Friday after the authorities announced the closure of four major roads. Harambee Avenue, City Hall Way, Taifa Road and Mama Ngina Street will remain closed on Friday as the government conducts a pilot for the recently proposed car-free days to allow hawkers conduct business in the CBD. However, the Federation of Kenya Employers (FKE), the Law Society of Kenya (LSK) and the Consumer Federation of Kenya (Cofek) all faulted the legality and practicability of the order. LSK president Allen Gichuhi said the government should have consulted all stakeholders before effecting the directive, which he said is bound to be challenged in court by aggrieved parties. FKE executive director Jacqueline Mugo said on Monday that stakeholders in the transport sector were not consulted before issuance of the directive, adding that the move is ambiguous since a total ban is not practical. “The idea is good. However, Nairobi does not have a workable public transport system. Workers can’t cycle in the city. We don’t have that culture,” Mugo said in an interview. Transport crisis The Consumers Federation of Kenya (Cofek) also faulted the move saying in a tweet that the “decision by the @TransportKE to set aside car-free days in Nairobi CBD from February 1 requires public participation and its unnecessary given that the move doesn’t amount to decongestion of traffic”. Former Nairobi deputy Governor Jonathan Mueke said the move needed to be thought out properly to avoid a transport crisis. “Sixty-four buses can’t serve the nine road corridors in Nairobi. There will be a transport crisis on Friday,” said Mueke on Twitter. Ainabkoi MP William Chepkut said “car-free days are effected in cities that have subways, metro lines, bike lanes and bike parks, mass bus transport systems and some have waterways serving their CBDs…” Senior Counsel Paul Muite said the measure is ill-thought out and impractical. On Monday, Transport Cabinet secretary  James Macharia  said several city roads will be closed between 8am and 4pm to free up space for residents to walk as well as allow traders to set up shop for hawkers to sell their wares. According to the Principal Secretary Public Works Paul Maringa, the government has designated every Wednesday and Saturday as days for the hawkers to conduct business within the CBD. He said there will be dedicated parking space for motorists in Uhuru Park and Railways bus terminus as no car will be allowed within the CBD on the two days. Yesterday, Hawkers Association chairman Waweru Kimani said he was optimistic that this will boost business for the small-scale traders. Generate revenue “I’m happy that the government has considered hawkers and set aside days for us to do business without fear of being harassed by the county government askaris. I want to assure city residents that we will abide by the rules and regulations of the county government,” said  Kimani. The chairman has, however, expressed concern over the large number of hawkers expected to show up on the set days, estimated to be 100,000. He said there are at least 60,000 hawkers operating in Gikomba market, 10,000 in the CBD and another 30,000 are expected to come from the estates. If successful, the car-free days are expected to generate Sh39.5 million revenue daily. Cities that have successfully enforced car-free days around the world have adequate, clean and reliable public transport systems unlike Nairobi, which has chaotic, dirty and rickety matatus for public transport.