Lynette Matheka and Grace Angela @PeopleSports11 This year’s Kenya Open Golf Championship which has been sponsored by the government to the tune of Sh 254.5 million (2.2 million euros) will be named Magical Kenya Open. The event, expected to be broadcast to over 490 million homes in the world, will run from March 14-17 as part of the European Tour and will also be available on a local free-to-air channel for six hours each day for the four days. Kenya Open attained its European Tour status in August last year after a series of talks with the organisers. This was after President Uhuru Kenyatta challenged Kenya Open Golf Limited (KOGL) and Kenya Golf Union (KGU) to ensure it moves from the Challenge Tour to the main event. Consequently, the prize kitty for this year’s championship was raised to about Sh126 million (1.1 million Euros) which is double the total prize money for last year’s tournament which marked the championship’s 50th anniversary. Preparations are in top gear at the course as several changes are being made to convert it to a European Tour Championship course. Several changes have also been made in the order of play to make live coverage and access to the course easy. “There will only be one entrance to the event which will go through the village. The traditional hole 13 will be hole one. Live coverage will also be available on the course for revelers who cannot walk the course. These amongst other changes will make the event more attractive for golf enthusiasts,” said tournament director Patrick Obath. Meanwhile, eight local pros will get automatic slots to the tournament. The eight are being selected through the Safari Open tour that started late last year and will run until the first week of March. The rest of the pros battle it out for four invitational slots, tentatively against other African golfers for a chance to play in the global event. Six local amateurs also get a chance to share the course with some of the top golfers in the world. The government, through the Ministry of Tourism as well as the Ministry of Sports, Barclays Bank of Kenya, Kenya Breweries Limited and Hemingways Hotel are some of the sponsors already on board.