Bernard Gitau @benagitau Chief Justice David Maraga yesterday warned judges and magistrates against frequent adjournment of cases or engaging in corruption. He said unnecessary delay of cases by magistrates and judges had angered Kenyans. Speaking at the Supreme Court during the swearing in of 47 newly appointed magistrates, Maraga said Kenyans were unhappy with the manner in which some judges and magistrates were quick to grant requests for adjournment even when they were not justified. “During the anti-corruption conference at Bomas of Kenya last week, we (Judiciary) were heavily and loudly criticised mainly for delays and corruption. I urge you to take charge of your courtrooms,” said Maraga. During the conference, the Director of Criminal Investigations (DCI) George Kinoti  and the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) Noordin Haji said lenient bail terms and court orders were the weak link in the war against corruption. Kinoti spoke of “strange orders” from the courts that prevented the arrest of certain powerful suspects against whom investigators had  evidence. “Some of the frustrations that pull us down are some strange orders we receive. We are stopped even before we record a statement from somebody whom we know very well has stolen from Kenyans and all Kenyans know we have pursued this person,” said Kinoti. Haji said some court orders grant rich and powerful people favours such as lenient bail terms and allow them to remain in offices, which exposes witnesses to intimidations. He vowed to take the fight to the Supreme Court to ensure suspects facing graft charges step aside. Cases monitored President Uhuru Kenyatta has also taken issue with the Judiciary’s handling of corruption cases. Responding to the criticism yesterday, Maraga told Judicial officials that their management of cases will be monitored keenly. “Adjournment of cases on frivolous grounds is the very reason we have a case backlog in our system.  We are actually going to keenly watch your management of cases in court,” said Maraga. Maraga also called on all judges and magistrates to adhere to the code of coduct. Code of conduct “We are reviewing the Judicial Code of Conduct and Ethics which awaiting Parliament’s  approval. But you should adhere to the current one,” he added. Maraga said the code demands independence, impartiality, professionalism and objectivity in the discharge of duties by all judicial officers. He said the code also prohibits private communication or correspondence between magistrates and litigants and involvement in business or activities that may result in a conflict of interest.