Aside from being one of the five basic tastes (salty, sweet, bitter, sour, and umami), salt has properties that release food molecules into the air, giving the food an aroma – an integral part of taste. But to many, salt is just that—salt. However, there are different types of this oldest and most widely used seasoning 1. Table salt This is what you find on most saltshakers. It’s highly refined and finely ground, with impurities and trace minerals removed in the process. Most table salt is iodised, meaning iodine has been added to prevent iodine deficiency, which can cause hypothyroidism and other maladies. It boosts the creation of digestive enzymes and juices that allow us to extract and assimilate other vitamins and nutrients from the food we eat. But it’s use is increasingly being discouraged. Many chronic imbalances, such as diabetes, gout and obesity can be worsened or partially be caused by table salt 2. Sea salt Harvested from evaporated seawater, sea salt is usually unrefined and coarser-grained than table salt. It contains some of the minerals from where it was harvested – zinc, potassium and iron, among others, which give it a more complex flavour profile. Consuming sea salt will protect your skin and improve your dental health, your sleep, and the electrolytic balance of your body. 3. Kala namak This is Himalayan salt that’s been packed in a jar with charcoal, herbs, seeds and tree bark, then fired in a furnace for 24 hours before it’s cooled and stored. This process gives kala namak its reddish-black colour, its pungent, salty taste and a faint, sulfurous aroma of eggs. It’s often used in vegan and vegetarian dishes to give egg-free dishes the taste of egg. Consuming Kala Namak is a true miracle for most digestive problems. It increases appetite and can help treat abdominal discomfort. 4. Hawaiian alaea red salt It contains around 80 minerals. It is a mixture of unrefined sea salt and the iron oxide-rich volcanic clay. Particularly this clay gives the salt its brick red colour. Season your food with just a pinch of it and empower your lungs, the function of your immune system, your overall energy, and your ability to focus. 5. Smoked salt Slow-smoked up to two weeks over a wood fire (usually hickory, mesquite, apple, oak or alder wood), smoked salt adds an intense and, yes, smoky flavour to dishes. Depending on the time smoked and the wood used, tastes will vary from brand to brand. Smoked salt is the best of the different types of salt to use for flavouring meats and heartier vegetables such as potatoes. 6. Cyprus black lava salt Appreciated for its earthy flavours, cyprus black lava salt contains activated charcoal and is used as an outstanding decoration for the table. Among the benefits of consuming this salt are a body detox, healthy lungs, increased hydration, and prevention of muscle cramps. 7. Hawaiian black lava salt It is an exotic, sultry sea salt with an activated coconut charcoal. Its effects are similar to those of the cyprus black lava salt. The rich, black colour and crunchy grains add a dramatic finish to any meal and hold up nicely in saucy, full-flavoured dishes. 8. Truffle salt This salt has aphrodisiac effects, along with anti-inflammatory and antimicrobial properties. The truffle salt is a seasoning with a wide range, but is also a great source of protein that can improve your immune system. 9. Fleur de Sel Also known as the “cream of the salt pan,” the “caviar of sea salts,” or the “champagne of salt,” Fleur de Sel has an impressive high mineral content and a nice, light taste. It contains all the elements found in seawater: iodine, zinc, copper, manganese, iron, magnesium, and potassium, offering a treasure for your health with every bite. 10. Grey salt This type of salt contains a bouquet of different minerals. Besides the therapeutic benefits, it will improve your respiratory system and stabilise your heartbeat. Most importantly, you can maintain a normal acid-alkaline balance and may live longer by consuming this salt.