The clamour for the overhaul of the political leadership in Ukambani is far from over after a section of politicians allied to three Ukambani governors yesterday told Wiper Democratic Movement party leader  Kalonzo Musyoka that his “time is up”. The MCAs took the stand as Kalonzo convened a crisis meeting in his Yatta home to quell internal divisions that have bedevilled the party. Journalists were barred from the meeting that centred on how to tame a simmering rebellion by three Ukambani governors —  Kivutha Kibwana (Makueni), Alfred Mutua (Machakos) and Charity Ngilu (Kitui). The rebellion, the Handshake deal between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga and the upcoming Embakasi South by-election have all stirred  Kaonzo into action. By the time of going to press, the Yatta meeting was still in progress. In Machakos town, 20 Machakos MCAs said it was regrettable that during his tenure in government, Kalonzo has done little for the people of Ukambani. In a statement, the MCAs said time had come for the community to chart forward a new political direction away from Kalonzo. “Kalonzo  has dominated the politics of this region since the early 80s but unfortunately, there is little if anything to show for the people of Ukambani. We are united for a fresh start,” read the statement in part. He went on, “We further urge the three governors to spearhead a paradigm and mindset shift from politics of worshipping an individual to politics of delivering development for the people. We also urge them to swiftly craft a new political direction which will ensure one of them becomes President in 2022, and the community returns to Government where it belongs.” Muungano party at the wake of 2017 general election and successfully clinched his seat on a Wiper party ticket. Kibwana was later appointed by kalonzo as the acting party Chairman. On 9th January 2019 during a rally at Masinga, Kibwana revealed that he was not elected in the party democratically by party delegates “I don’t know if I will be kicked out of the party leadship tomorrow but we must change tack for the community to benefit. We need to hold elections in the party so that if I am interested I can contest” Kibwana. During that meeting, Kabana said he was a member of two parties, Muungano and Wiper party. Wiper party insiders intimated that a decision to bar the journalists from covering yestdays meeting at kalonzos yatta ranch was reached so as to give each member privacy as they air their divergent concerns. While this was happening, a section of Yatta residents held demonstrations in Kithimani carrying placards written ‘Kalonzo Go back to Tseikuru and leave Ukambani Governors to work’ Neither Governor Kibwana nor Charity Ngilu attended the meeting.  Ends.