Martin Mwita @MwitaMartin The Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) is this year gearing for major Initial Public Offerings (IPOs) as it seeks to end decadelong drought in the market. National Oil of Kenya will be dual listed on the NSE and the London Stock Exchange (LSE) in a move targeted to raise more than Sh100 billion. The government is keen to sell a stake in the State-owned oil firm which will see investors acquire shares, as the State moves to raise funds to develop the oil industry. The second tranche of IPOs is expected to come from the government planned privatisation, as the state moves to offload at least 26 corporations to raise funds to bridge development budget. NSE is today expected to kick off talks with the Privatisation Commission, which has approved sale of the 26 poorly performing state corporations to cut down government spending. Unlock potential The talks are expected to unlock potential IPO’s from major corporations. Among those on the list include Kenya Meat Commission, Development Bank of Kenya, Kenya Pipeline Corporation, Kenya Ports Authority and five sugar millers — Chemelil, Sony, Nzoia, Miwani and Muhoroni. This comes as the bourse moves to scale up its market activities after a bear run last year, occasioned by a capital flight by foreign investors on the strengthening of the US Wall Street at the back of wobbling domestic market. The last time Kenya witnessed a major offering was in May 2008 when Safaricom went public, attracting more than 860,000 applicants in one of East Africa’s biggest market activity that was oversubscribed by 532 per cent. Other memorable offerings were KenGen, Co-operative Bank and Britam, all falling between 2006 and 2011 when the market recorded about eight key IPOs. NSE chief executive Geoffrey Odundo yesterday said the bourse is readying itself for major offerings, among them the cross-listing of the National Oil Corporation this year. “This year, we want to focus on getting IPOs. We are engaging  all companies that have interest in IPOs,” Odundo said in Nairobi during a briefing on 2019 outlook. NSE is also counting on the “Ibuka” programme launched on December 17, to attract more listings. Incubation programme Tuskys supermarket could sell a stake to the public this year, as it moves to grow its business. NSE is today expected to host the first firm under the Ibuka programme. Ibuka which is a Kiswahili translation for ‘emerging’ is an incubation and acceleration programme which seeks to unlock the potential of small and medium sized companies, while scaling up their business through the bourse. Under the drive, the companies will enhance their financial, technical, operational, commercial and strategic aspects of businesses. The programme also enables firms raise capital through debt and equity markets.