Local and international dairy industry stakeholders have raised alarm over presence of high residual levels of aflatoxin and antibiotics in raw milk being consumed in the country. Representatives from State Department of Livestock, county governments, Kenya Dairy Board (KDB), local dairy processors, Netherlands government and international organisations and farmers blamed the development which raises fears of escalation of dangerous diseases such as cancer  on gaps along the value chain. The presence of impurities, they said follows poor regulation and lack of testing and processing infrastructure along the dairy value chain. A number of jobless youths procure raw milk from the countryside, which in most cases is not tested, and later sell to other vendors in informal settlements in urban centres. Livestock Principal Secretary Harry Kimtai said the industry is still facing several challenges on the quality and safety of milk and milk products primarily due to poor dairying practices. He said this has been complicated by declining and inadequate farmer extension and advisory services and unethical practices by some scrupulous milk dealers and service providers. “These factors have the potential to affect the quality and safety of milk and milk products, thus compromising consumer safety and competitiveness of products,” Kimtai said while addressing stakeholders during milk quality and safety seminar at a Nairobi hotel yesterday. KDB Managing director Margaret Kibogy said inadequate and lack of screening of raw milk has largely contributed to instances of high residual levels for aflatoxin and antibiotics. Unethical practices “The milk value chain is grappling with major challenges most of which are as a result of unethical practices by stakeholders. For example, there is misuse of antibiotics in dairy cattle which to a large extent is contributing to poor quality of milk being consumed in the country,” she said. Kibogy said the low quality of milk is compounded by the fact that 70 per cent of the entire market is informal. “The country produces 5.2 billion litres of milk annually  out of which 1.8 billion litres is consumed at the household level, 2.8 billion litres is sold in the informal market while local processors handle 619 million litres,” she added. Brookside Dairy Head of Milk Procurement Emmanuel Kabaki said due to lack of awareness, majority of farmers contaminate fodders with antibiotics which has great consequences to the end products, mainly milk. Sanne Willems, first officer in charge of food security and water at the Embassy of Netherlands in Kenya said presence of high residual levels for aflatoxin and antibiotics in consumed raw milk is a great concern both locally and internationally. “This has been necessitated by the huge informal market in addition to poor regulation and high cost of testing equipment,” she said.