Harrison Kivisu and Zuena Halako @PeopleDailyKe The United Nations Environment Programme (Unep) has lauded Kenya’s efforts to combat sea pollution, saying indicators show good progress in meeting its international obligations. Unep regional director Juliette Biao Koudenoukpo said the ban on plastic bags by the government had placed Kenya at the forefront in the war against sea pollution. At least 90 per cent of sea waste is plastics. She said Kenya had become a key player in countering the torrents of plasti waste degrading oceans and endangering marine life. She praised the recent construction of a dhow made of 100 per cent recycled plastics as a game changer in the anti-pollution war. “I want to reiterate our commitment as Unep to this kind of innovations taken by Kenya to ensure clean oceans and we are proud that this initiative has put Kenya on global map as number one champion of war on sea pollution,” said Biao. She made the remarks in Mombasa during the official reception of the plastic dhow that arrived in Mombasa’s Jomo Kenyatta public beach yesterday on its voyage to Zanzibar. The FlipFlopi, as it is known, is a nine-metre sailing boat made from 10 tonnes of discarded plastic and is on its voyage to Zanzibar, an approximate of 500-km journey meant to change mindsets about plastic waste. Launched in Lamu last year, the project has partnered with UN Environment’s CleanSeas campaign, which engages governments, the public and the private sector in the fight against marine plastic pollution. Food chain Pollution endangers fish, birds and other creatures in the sea. Unep warns that some of the plastics have already entered the human food chain with health consequences yet to be fully understood. Africa generates about 125 million tones of solid waste yet only four per cent is recycled. “It’s possible to transform this ocean pollution threat to opportunity of job creation and economic growth,” said Biao, urging African nations to adopt recycling of waste to conserve the environment. Despite the ban on plastic carrier bags in Kenya in 2017, the menace has not been eradicated completely as they are still smuggled from neighbouring countries. Environmental players are urging East African countries to adopt a policy that will ensure a common ban of plastics.