Foot stress fracture is characterised by an incomplete crack in one of the foot bones. The foot comprises of many small bones which are located in the rear foot, mid and fore foot. Each bone within the foot forms joints with adjacent bones. The bones of the foot provide attachment points for many muscles of the lower leg and foot. When these muscles contract, a pulling force is exerted on the respective bone. In addition, weight bearing activity places stress on the bones of the foot. When these forces are excessive or too repetitive, and beyond what the bones of the foot can withstand, bony damage can gradually occur.  This may initially result in a bony stress reaction, however, with continued damage may progress to a stress fracture of the foot. This condition typically occurs over time with excessive weight bearing activity such as distance running, sprinting, jumping or dancing. They often occur following a recent increase in activity or change in training conditions (such as surface, footwear or technique changes etc).This condition may sometimes occur traumatically such as landing onto a hard surface from a height. Sportspersons with this condition typically experience a localised pain in the foot, toes or ankle that increases with impact activity and may decrease with rest. As symptoms worsen, the affected may limp during weight bearing activity and may have to stop activity due to pain. Occasionally, pain may radiate to other areas of the foot that are not specifically involved in the injury. In severe cases, walking or standing may be enough to aggravate symptoms. Other symptoms may include night ache or pain on firmly touching the affected bone A thorough subjective and objective examination from a physiotherapist may be sufficient to diagnose a foot stress fracture.  Further investigations such as an X-ray, MRI, CT scan or bone scan are usually required to confirm diagnosis and determine the severity of injury. Rest is always the best option for treating stress fractures. The amount of rest varies upon location of the fracture, severity, the strength of the body’s healing response and nutrition. One should cast a stress fracture for four to eight weeks at a minimum. However, 12 to 16 weeks may be required for certain fractures and certain bones. Returning to activity depends on pain and the amount of healing the doctor perceives. With appropriate physiotherapy management, most patients with a stress fracture of the foot can make a full recovery (return to sport or full activities) in a period of three – nine months. In more severe cases, recovery may take 1 year, or longer, depending on the intervention required and a range of other factors. The writer is a physiotherapist, Harambee Stars and Mathare United wycle_200@yahoo.com 