Kirera Mwiti  and Mercy Mwai Secondary school heads have slammed the current textbook distribution system, terming it a “mega scandal in waiting”. They said the system has occasioned oversupply of books, leading to wastage of funds that could otherwise go to critical areas and improve learning. Each secondary school student is issued with textbooks that are not passed down to their colleagues even after the former advances. For instance, when Form One students are issued with a mathematics textbook, they keep the book even after they advance to Form Two, and the incoming class receives new ones. Teachers lamented that schools were oversupplied with books from one publisher yet the previous batches were still intact. The details emerged during a closed-door meeting for head teachers from across the country held in Nakuru at the weekend. Avoid wastage Tutors now want the supply of the books stopped and students allowed to pass down the books to avoid wastage. “Books worth millions of shillings are going to waste due to the current crisis. We are receiving books of subjects that we do not even teach and we have nowhere to keep them,” said a principal who did not want to be named for fear of victimisation. “Students who joined Form One have been issued with new set books yet similar books issued last year are still in good shape,” he added. Another teacher from Molo, Nauru county said the textbooks were conspicuously from the same publisher. He warned it could be a scheme between rogue education officials and cartels to fleece the government. “We welcome the move by the government to supply learning materials to students, but the ways its being done leaves a lot to be desired. Indeed, our stores are currently full with books and we have no space to keep the extra,” he said. He revealed that some schools with no storage space are buying huge plastic water containers to store the books. “You may find each student in a school with over 12 pieces of textbooks, yet the laboratory is ill equipped and the classes and dormitories are congested,” he said. Former National Parents Association Nakuru branch secretary general Eskimos Kobia described the distribution system a major crisis. “For years, students have passed down books and this has saved funds for other school projects, but in the current system, it seems some cartels are making millions through the supply of books,” he said. Distribution policy The sentiments by the teachers come in the wake of claims of bias over the distribution policy adopted by the government. This was after some classes failed to receive textbooks as the government had only targeted Standard Seven and Eight and  secondary school students. The distribution of books directly to public schools was adopted  last year in a move aimed at locking out cartels and middlemen who collude with school heads to siphon taxpayers’ cash. So far, the government says it  has distributed 32 million textbooks to both primary and secondary schools, with Kakamega county topping the list of beneficiaries with 1.7 million books. A report by the Ministry of Education indicates that textbooks for four primary school subjects and six subjects in secondary school were distributed to schools in all the 47 counties. Out of the 32 million textbooks,  31 million were issued to learners, while 579,408 and 310,464 were  primary and secondary teachers’ guides, respectively. The books were distributed under the World Bank-funded Secondary Education Quality Improvement Project, which seeks to improve the quality of education in the country.