Football Kenya Federation (FKF) Women’s Division One League playoffs as well as the award ceremony for Women’s Premier League (WPL) champions Vihiga Queens will be held at the Afraha Stadium, Nakuru today. Zone A winners Kibera Girls Soccer Academy (KGSA) will square it out with their Zone B counterparts Nyuki Starlets at 2pm, after which the winner will be awarded alongside Queens, who successfully retained the title in December. The two Division One sides had stellar performances in their respective zones, finishing unbeaten, hence today’s clash meant to determine the champion. Fans are waiting with bated breath for who blinks fast in the match that has all the ingredients of a thriller. However, Nyuki, a team composed of Ibinzo Girls students and three more players who are not students at the school, look disadvantaged on paper as they will have to do without the services of four key players. Three of them were a no-show as the new season preparations started while one is out injured. Coach Edgar Akhonya’s first choice goalkeeper Faith Keya has since transferred to Nginda Girls while defender Mildred Mutola joined Nairobi’s Olympic High School.  Damaris Akinyi, a midfielder with Nyuki, did not report to school as the new term started. The side will also miss the services of injured goal poacher Mary Majeso. “Keya is my first choice keeper while Majeso is my main striker and their absence will be felt. However, we have trained for the trophy and the remaining players will give their all,” said Akhonya. The playoffs will pave way for the WPL set to kick off on February 24 with the two teams set to make their debut in the 16-team league. The promotion of Nyuki has presented with a challenge as they have only three non-student players. “We must have a plan B since students may not be able to travel for all the away matches. In addition to the three players, we have identified four more who are ready to put pen to paper. By the time the league starts, we will add more players for a full squad,” added Akhonya.