Barry Silah @obel_barry Albert Njogu demolished his Egyptian 12th seed opponent Aly Shokeir 6-0,6-2 thereby earning a quarter final berth of the under 18 ITF World Tennis Tour Championships. The opening set for the fifth seed Kenyan was inch perfect as he mixed up his game in between points and rallies to give the game life. His discipline on the rally coupled with his confidence on the serve made it easier for him to navigate the waters against an error strewn opponent. The result meant the Kenyan who faces the familiar rival in the shape of Burundian top seed Abdul Shakur Kabura who earlier beat American 15th seed Arun Guruswamy in straight sets of 6-1,6-2. “I felt good on court because my game was solid. I want to keep improving so that I gain confidence. I am looking forward to play Shakur again because we had good matches before. We will leave it to the court but I will be ready,”said Njogu who was eliminated in the quarter-finals during the first leg. In the girls’ singles contest, Angela Okutoyi survived a third set tie-break to win 7-6(4), 3-6, 7-6(6) against Cameroon tournament seventh seed Anna Lemogo. This win over the first leg losing finalist ensured the 14-year-old Okutoyi gets a breeze into the quarter finals and meet Moroccan fourth seed Salma Loudili who triumphed 6-3, 6-2 over Egyptian Habiba Farouk. The match was tight from both ends as the pair exchanged good points. The Cameroonian was outstanding on the second set after twice breaking the Kenyan opponent twice. However a patient Okutoyi boded his time and attacked with precision when the opportunity presented itself. Meanwhile Roselida Asumwa succumbed to a 6-2, 6-0 defeat against Egyptian third seed Sara El Ghazouly in horror show for the Kenyan. Asumwa won only two games across the sets. Asumwa struggled with multiple errors on her server which gave her opponent room to secure winners particularly from the baseline. Okutoyi’s win was also a reprieve for the local girls who performed badly last week with virtually all of them being eliminated in the preliminary stages. However, she still remains the lone female Kenyan representative in a competition that is growing ever so tight, especially with Alicia Owegi already ousted in the first round and regular campaigner Sneha Kotecha out with an injury.