Social media is a powerful tool for connecting and informing people, but it also packs harmful effects on mental health. The following virtual disruptive factors don’t pay respect to age or one’s social status, writes Cynthia Mukanzi 1. Flaunting fake lifestyle People curate their lives and airbrush them for social media following and likes. There are individuals who definitely swim in wealth and have no reservations when it comes to splashing their lifestyles on social media. Then there are those who fabricate their lives for the gram in search of attention. This definitely has everything to do with low self-esteem. 2. Social comparisons You are scrolling through social media and your timeline is flooded with photos of your former schoolmates on vacation abroad, in fancy restaurants and maybe with a sexy husband or wife with beautiful kids on tow. A look at that reminds you of how you hate your job that isn’t paying well and how you can barely afford medical cover or a trip to your folks in the countryside. It hits you hard and darkens your mood as you compare your life with that of your friends and relatives. People actually become depressed over these things not understanding that we all have different journeys in life. 3. Overwhelming information With a plethora of social media platforms comes an overflow of information that sometimes overwhelms our capacity to handle. When using several social media apps, a stream of notifications from each one of them can drive you crazy. It gets even worse when you are expected to respond to friends on several platforms or take part in group-chats when you don’t have the energy and time to devote to them. 4. Online harassment From sexual harassment, deception, revenge porn, hacking to shaming, social media’s underbelly shelters prowling aggressors that cause horrific damage. Cyber bullying has taken on different forms leading to loss of lives, breakdown of relationships and deterioration of mental health. It starts with a simple meme to a full-blown attack. A lot of offenders get away with their crimes leaving behind a trail of terror and hopelessness on the targeted individuals. 5. No respect for boundaries You’ll be doing your thing quietly then a notification pops up on your phone about a stranger who has just liked your photo. This is social media norm. But this becomes a problem when the said stranger slides into your DM telling you how ‘sexy and tasty’ you look. People think this is cute, but this unwanted attention is disgusting and freaking creepy. If you ignore or tell them off, it might turn ugly with the individual hurling insults at you. It can quickly escalate into harassment. 6. Sleep depriving The longer you use your phone when you get into bed the more it disrupts your sleep. The screen light keeps you up longer and messes with your sleep pattern. If this happens regularly, it causes sleep deprivation and fatigue, which wears you down. The remedy; just keep off social media when it’s time to hit the hay. 7. Distraction from productivity Social media is distractive and can lead to lack of productivity and panic when you fail to deliver. The more time you spend on social media, the more you slack off on your priorities. This means you fail to manage your time and do not meet targets as expected. When this happens and a deadline is screaming at you, you start rushing through work and fail to be thorough. And it becomes your loss, but this is something that you can work on by keeping off the gram while at work. 8. Exposure to unwanted content Have you ever been in a social media group whose members constantly post unsavoury content? This is so annoying and stressful. It’s even harder when you can’t leave the group because it’s probably a work group, friends or family. If you exit, the remaining members will call you names such as ‘snob’ or you end up missing on important information. It’s just terrible! 9. Fear of missing out (Fomo) This is common. People feel like they miss out on fun and adventure when they come across photos of their friends having a good time on social media. It’s the thought of how good it would have been to be there that magnifies the feelings of being left out and exclusion. 10. Endangers human-to-human interactions Nowadays, it’s hard for a lot of people to have constant conversation for 10 minutes without feeling the need to peep into their social media. Instead of savouring the one-on-one moments, they miss out when they insist on documenting everything. Sure, photos and videos are good for posterity, but the best way to do this is to feel the moments and burn them into your undeletable memory.