Erickson Kiprono @PeopleSports11 The Kenya Lionesses will be hoping to retain their title after making the top five shortlist for the Safaricom Sports Personality of the Year Awards (SOYA) women’s team of the year in the 2018 edition to be hosted at Fort Jesus in Mombasa on Friday. The Kenya national women’s sevens team will come up against Telkom Hockey, Equity Hawks basketball team, Kenya Ports Authority basketball team and the national women’s volleyball side Malkia Strikers. Nairobi Water handball team and Kenya Prisons women’s volleyball team made the preliminary top seven but could not impress for the final top five. Lionesses defied all the odds to win the elusive African title for the first time after beating Uganda 29-7 in the final. At the Hong Kong Sevens which was a qualifier for the World Sevens Series Core status, Kevin Wambua’s side reached the Cup semis after losing in sudden death 12-7 to South Africa, an improvement from last year where they reached the quarters. They had topped Pool X with victories over Papua New Guinea, South Africa and Mexico, in quarters Kenya beat Argentina then lost to South Africa in the semis. At the Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast Australia, the team finished sixth after losing 40-5 to Fiji in the fifth-place play-off. Meanwhile, Telkom, the 2014 women’s team of the year, reclaimed the Africa Club Cup title after edging champions Ghana Revenue Authority 2-0 to win a record 10th continental title. They also won the national championship unbeaten. Equity Hawks had a good outing where they were crowned FIBA Africa Zone Five Club basketball champions following their 70-54 win over rivals KPA. They also went ahead to wrestle back the Kenya Basketball Federation Premier League title after once again flooring the dockers 73-64 in the final. Their perennial enemies KPA managed to pick silver in the FIBA Africa Zone Five Club basketball championship and finished second in the league. For Malkia Strikers, they qualified for the World Championships in Japan after finishing second at the Africa Cup of Nations tournament held in Cameroon in October. While in Japan, the Kenyans were pooled in a tough group that included Serbia, Brazil, Kazakhstan, Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic but made history by managing a first ever win after straight sets win over Kazakhstan in the opening match.