Alvin Kariuki @PeopleDailyKe Labour and Social Protection Cabinet secretary  Ukur Yattani yesterday made a last minute appeal to the striking nurses to call off the strike and embrace dialogue to avoid paralysing operations in public health facilities. Yattani appointed a three-member team to resolve the stalemate between the nurses’ union and the Council of Governors before the strike kicked off countrywide. The CS demanded that the union representing more than 8,000 nurses give an additional one month to facilitate implementation of the salary increase deal. Special committee The union officials however, dismissed the CS’s efforts to form a conciliatory team arguing that nothing new would  be achieved as both parties agreed on the payment of allowances on November 12, 2017. Speaking during a meeting with a conciliation committee appointed to mediate a stalemate that could cripple the health sector affecting most of the country’s population, he said nurses in the 23 counties should call off the strike as the special committee look into their grievances. He urged parties to the dispute to file memoranda with the committee within 30 days to expedite the process. Kenya National Union of Nurses (Knun) secretary general Seth Panyako  said the union boycotted a meeting convened by the conciliatory team arguing that government was aware of issues at hand hence no need to discuss further. The union boss further argued that he has no powers to call off the strike, the power has been left to the nurses on ground who pushed him to call for the strike. On its part the Council of Governors has promised to work together with the conciliatory team to come up with a lasting solution. At the same time, some patients were discharged from various hospitals while some were stranded in the wards because of accumulated bills. Patients in wards remained unattended to, and only those who managed to clear medical bills were discharged. Kisii branch nurses union officials — Fredrick Oigo, chairman, Moses Rianga (secretary) and Eric Rioba Deputy Secretary general said nurses will not return until implement the increment of Sh3000 and Sh5000 uniform allowance. This comes even as the Institute of Human Resource Management (IHRM) offered to help governors and nurses strike a deal to end the industrial dispute. Last Friday, IHRM said her members have skills and capacity to arbitrate and negotiate difficult Collective Bargaining Agreements (CBAs). The Institute’s national chairman, Elijah Sitimah said lack of expertise in solving employers and employees’ labour conflicts usually lead to protracted strikes that are costly; time consuming and life threatening. “Already IHRM has demonstrated its capacity and skills in conflict resolution, arbitration and reconciliation. In the universities lecturers’ strike, for instance, we were invited and helped bring sobriety in the negotiations,” he said. Sitimah said he believes members of the IHRM can be relied upon to curb the nurses’ strike which commenced yesterday in most public health facilities across the country. In 2017 nurses went on strike for several months plaguing services at public health facilities.