After the vows, food, cake and song and dance, we bid the newly-weds goodbye. If they’re a little extra, there’s an after-party later on, before they sneakily take off and head to their honeymoon. Previously, we never got to see the couple until a certain amount of time elapsed. Some couples took even three months before they resurfaced, and others, a couple of weeks. It really depends on a couple but usually, we only heard from them after they checked back from their romantic getaway. Some time back, we witnessed one of our friends wed his girlfriend but that morning, he was busy sharing memes on his Facebook timeline. I’m sure it took the edge off any anxiety, since we all laughed in the comments section as we congratulated him. Anyway, after the D-day, they made their social media comeback months later, which is acceptable. I mean, it’s a well-deserved break, even from social media. The only activities on their walls were guests posting and tagging pictures they took with them on their big day. But these days, things are different… We bid the happy couple goodbye as they headed off to their ‘undisclosed’ honeymoon location. The week that followed, on Tuesday, the newly wed wife posted a picture of the couple enjoying themselves on the beach, ping location included. Wow! She couldn’t even give us a breather. Honestly, the honeymoon is a private affair. So private that the couple needs to get away. If it were not, why would they bother leaving in the first place? As the week progressed, more photos from the retreat trickled in, complete with hashtags #HoneymoonTingz, #MarriageWorks et al, flooding our timelines unforgivingly. Yes, we were brought up to speed, on the dining, the walks, even on the breathing at the resort! It was basically a communal honeymoon. We were all there. This was worse than those who keep on posting photos from their big day eons later; of their bridal team or parents or cake or make-up or trees or whatever. It really becomes a pain. A few on the anniversary are okay, or one-off flashbacks, but not every other month for crying out loud! The honeymooners, sigh. Just don’t. We do not want to know. We have already imagined you are having a great time. Wait till you get back and you can give us a little sneak peek. Even vloggers, who apparently live their lives online, go to great lengths to keep their personal business to themselves and their inner circle. Kudos to all the couples who keep their marriage affairs private and only surprise us with snapshots when absolutely necessary. You have a special place in our hearts (read timelines).