Reuben Mwambingu @reubenmwambingu The Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) Noordin Haji yesterday called for the decentralisation of government services to allow people at the grassroots to access justice. Haji also said there was need to establish social justice centres that can help communities highlight human rights violations and other forms of injustice. Adjacent land The DPP was responding to complaints of human rights violations from residents of Dunga Unuse and Mbuyuni slums, in Changamwe, Mombasa, during the opening of Uhaki na Usawa, a social justice centre. During the ceremony, residents informed Haji about cases of injustice relating to land ownership and excessive use of force by the police. They include evictions of hundreds of residents from land adjacent to the port of Mombasa by an absentee landlord in 2015. Maureen Wangari, who was affected by the eviction, told the DPP that they had been reduced to internally displaced persons in makeshift tents. “You will be shocked that a human being can live in such a state. But because we are poor, we cannot access justice,” said Wangare. She said despite many promises by politicians to address their plight, nothing had changed. In early 2017, the National Assembly’s Lands committee toured the area to collect views but residents say no help has been forthcoming. Residents said they were not given a notice for  eviction.  Haki Africa executive director Hussein Khalid said cases of violation of human rights were on the increase, particularly in informal settlements. Justice centres “Serious violation of human rights continue with impunity in slums and most of the cases go unreported. This is why we need these social justice centres,” said Khalid. Haji admitted his office was unaware of most of the cases because he has no direct link to areas where they take place. “Now I see the need for social justice centres like the one we are opening here today because you could be having a complaint but as the DPP may not be aware. The problem we have is that most of the government offices are located in the upmarket areas where only the well-off can access,” he said. The DPP said his office will begin to visit justice centres once or twice a month to gather complaints to help residents access justice. Haji also discouraged the youth to shun handouts from politicians, saying “some of the money you are being given is stolen money.”