How long did you date? Jenniffer: We dated for five years and during the fifth year, he proposed and we got married the same year. The wedding preparation took us only three weeks. Our initial budget was Sh500,000, but we ended up spending Sh800,000. How did you settle on the number of guests? The fact that I was the reigning Miss Tourism Lamu and hubby was an MCA aspirant, we knew we would have a crazy number. So, we had planned for around 1,000 people, but we were shocked that more than 2,000 people showed up. How about your bridal party? At first, we had 12 bridesmaids and 15 groomsmen and we had to find a way to reduce the number. So, we hiked the outfit cost. The total amount for each bridesmaid was Sh18,000 and Sh20,000 for groomsmen, which led several to drop out and we remained with a more manageable number of seven bridesmaids and seven groomsmen. Tell us about your choice of venue We exchanged vows at PCEA Church Mpeketoni because we were brought up in church and given that the community thinks that one is a heathen if they have an outdoor wedding, we would have been condemned! We also wanted to have a nice dance with family and friends, thus we had our reception outside the church. Why would you say your wedding was successful? Though we had a lot of barriers during the preparation, our day was successful because my dad, who never goes to church, came for the first time to walk me down the aisle and stayed till the end of the ceremony. This was more than a miracle. Also, we brought an MC and DJ from Nairobi, which rarely happens around here. They did an amazing job and made the crowd so happy. Many hadn’t experienced this before. Also, the food was less compared to the number that showed up, but God made it possible for everyone to get a share. Did you experience any challenges? Yes, we had few, but we overcame. First, The groomsmen tailor didn’t deliver the suits, which were beige in colour. We came to find out that he had been sacked from a reputable company within town known as Sir George, and was just a conman masquerading as a tailor. We reported the case to the police after the wedding and we learned that he hadn’t even made the suits, despite lying to us that he had given them to his cousin to deliver. He got arrested thereafter. Because of this, the groomsmen had to wear white and black outfits that were brought in from Nairobi on Friday, only for the one who was delivering them to again forget to pack the suspenders and other accessories that were to make the look outstanding. This was a big mess that affected our budget, leading to other challenges. Right after the vows, my bestmaid whispered to me that the baker had refused to release the cake since we had not cleared the balance. It was so embarrassing, I had to send the money while seated in church. It was unfair, as we had agreed that I would clear the balance a day after the wedding, following the deficit caused by impromptu shopping for groomsmen. Another challenge was on our committee. They gave us the best but at some point, they kept failing us and didn’t consider our opinion. We felt like it was no longer our wedding, and we ended up doing it their way.