Robert Ochoro,Yusuf Masibo and Evans Nyakundi @PeopleDailyKe Principals of secondary schools in Kisii say they are overwhelmed by the high student populations following increased Form One intake in line with the government’s 100 per cent transition policy. The principals said they have been forced to convert libraries and corridors into classrooms to accommodate the swelling number of learners. Sameta sub-county secondary school heads association chairman Andrew Nyamari said more than 6,000 students in the area lack adequate classrooms, libraries and laboratories. Nyamari, who is the principal of Nyaguku Mixed Day Secondary School said classes have 70 students instead of 45, recommended by the Education ministry. Classrooms are congested. The environment is not conducive for learning,” he said, urging elected leaders to support schools with funds to build more classrooms to cope with the increasing enrolment. Corridors At Emenwa Mixed Secondary School in Nyamache sub-county, the principal Ibrahim Gekonde said the school was unable to cope with the swelling number of students, stressing they had converted corridors into classrooms. He said the school has 14 teachers employed by the government and the Board of Management has employed 18, which, he noted drained the schools’ funds. At Buyonge and Kerongorori mixed secondary schools, principals Evans Magembe and Tabitha Mogonchi, respectively, appealed to the government to increase the number of teachers. Meanwhile, education stakeholders in Bungoma have launched a manhunt for 3,600 KCPE candidates who have not reported to Form One. Area Quality and Assurance Officer Caleb Omondi said they have embarked on a door-to-door campaign to ensure all of last year’s KCPE candidates transit to secondary. Speaking at Bungoma High School during a stakeholders meeting, Omondi said they were going to ensure that 100 per cent transition is achieved. In Nyamira, learners who will be joining Form One as a result of the ongoing 100 per cent  transition campaign will  be admitted unconditionally. Speaking in Nyamira, Director of Internal Audit at the Ministry  of Education Victoria Angwenyi ordered that all missing students be admitted without  any conditions. Nyamira County Commissioner Amos Mariba asked chiefs and their assistants to ensure the exercise is successful.