Dulue Mbachu Almost every Nigerian vote since independence in 1960 has been dogged by varying degrees of conflict and allegations of rigging. That’s one reason why the 2015 election that saw Muhammadu Buhari become the first candidate in the nation’s history to topple a sitting president through the ballot box was such a watershed moment. But the former military ruler, 76, has presided over four years of lackluster growth and fallen short on a pledge to quell rampant corruption. His critics nicknamed him “Baba Go-Slow”—a reference to his sluggish response to crises. His bid for a second term has now been set back by one week, to February 23, when he faces dozens of rivals, the most prominent being Atiku Abubakar, 72, a wealthy businessman, former vice president and alleged kleptocrat of international repute, whose various presidential bids have failed previously. Various questions arise on the Nigerian situation. What are the key campaign issues? The electorate’s biggest gripes are about lack of jobs and economic opportunities, falling living standards and high inflation. The unemployment rate hit 23.1 per cent in the third quarter of 2018, its highest since 2010. The World Bank estimates almost half Nigerian population of 200 million live on $1.90 or less a day. The stock market has been the world’s worst performer since Buhari came to office. Endemic corruption has been a major concern, as is insecurity typified by conflict with Islamist militants in the northeast, perennial violence in the oil-rich Niger delta and escalating tensions over grazing rights. Then there are questions about the vote itself. On January 25, Buhari suspended the nation’s top judge, heightening concerns about the credibility of the election because the Supreme Court would likely have to rule on any challenges to the result. What is Buhari promising? The stern former general led Nigeria briefly in the 1980s as a dictator and unsuccessfully contested several elections after military rule ended in 1999 before finally winning the top job. While voters and pundits alike were optimistic he could diversify the oil-dependent economy, tackle graft, and end a deadly insurgency by Islamist group Boko Haram, his popularity started to wane after falling oil prices triggered Nigeria’s first economic contraction in a quarter century in 2016. Investors blame him for exacerbating the slump and deterring investment by imposing capital controls. He now pledges to bolster spending on new transport and power projects and also increase the minimum wage. On the other hand, Abubakar, widely known as Atiku, says he’ll draw on his experience in the private sector to lift the economy. An admirer of the late Conservative UK Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, he favours incentives to encourage investment—selling most of the state oil company, floating the naira and removing a price cap that keeps the cost of gasoline in Nigeria among the lowest in the world. On security, Buhari says he will intensify the battle against Boko Haram and provide the military with additional resources. Abubakar says it’s no accident Nigeria’s poorest region has borne the brunt of the insurgency, and he’ll promote jobs and development there which would make it harder for militants to recruit members. While Buhari has a reputation for honesty in what ranks as one of the world’s most corrupt countries, Transparency International says his war on graft has not yielded the desired results. Abubakar has long been accused of engaging in illicit practices to amass a vast fortune, an allegation he denies. Abubakar has pledged to shift the focus from “punitive” to “preventive” measures to tackle graft. Who’s likely to win? An absence of reliable opinion polls makes it difficult to tell, and analysts have mixed views. If no candidate wins outright in the first round, a run-off will be held. The victor must also secure at least a quarter of the votes in two-thirds of the states. In previous elections, the easiest way for a candidate to win the presidency was to corner the votes of two of the country’s three main ethnic blocks—the Hausa, Yoruba and the Igbo—and then try to tap into support from other minority groups. This time around, it’s a more complicated calculus because both Buhari and Abubakar are Muslim Hausa speakers from the north. Will the elections be free and fair? That’s the perennial question. With state power seen as the shortest route to wealth in Nigeria, elections are hotly contested. – The article first appeared on the Bloomberg