James Magayi @magayijim A shadowy consortium was paid Sh150 million by State Department for Sports to conduct feasibility studies on three stadiums the government did not intend to build at all. In a sleazy script synonymous with wanton looting in the rest of government departments more of taxpayers’ money will be embezzled as the consortium is still owed an undisclosed amount of money for the said feasibility studies. At the height of 2017 political campaigns the government which had failed to honour their initial promise of five stadiums in the first term of Jubilee administration scaled down their promise to three national amphitheatres. The country was still reeling from Confederation of African Football’s decision to strip Kenya of hosting rights for African Nations Championships (CHAN) due to infrastructural inadequacies. The three multipurpose stadiums were supposed to be built in Mombasa around Shimo la Tewa, in an undisclosed location in Eldoret and another in Nairobi along Ngong’ Road. The three projects were to cost taxpayers Sh35 billion and would be good enough to host international competitions. The three stadiums were to be purposeful for football, rugby and athletics. However, the government abandoned the plans early in 2018 but the consortium, identified only as PKE, was still paid Sh150 million. Ministry reports presented to Parliament last week list the three projects as stalled. Shimo la Tewa Stadium is listed as too costly while the Ngong’ Road and Eldoret stadiums’ viability are listed to be under consideration because of the high costs. Principal Secretary Kirimi Kaberia confirmed that the said stadiums are not in government plans but deflected question about the inexplicable expense to Chief Financial Officer John Nyabwari. “There were plans for constructing the stadiums but their costs were too high. Instead of building such expensive facilities we decided to focus on affordable ones which would cost Sh200 million or less. The main emphasis is to attain A grade certification for the playing surface from FIFA and IAAF to certify the running tracks. So the three stadiums intended to be built in Mombasa, Nairobi and Eldoret will not be built at all,” Kaberia said.