Dear comrades, today I come to ye, dear brethren, as a preacher! Hear thee my words, oh ye sinners that tread the corridors of Kenyan universities. Today, I seek to speak to a special category of sinners, not your usual campo malefactors; the laptop thieves and the like. Those are beyond redemption. My message is directed to sinners I call ‘accomplices’. I believe all of you have heard about this ‘lit’ place called hell; the sea of fire and brimstone where sinners shall be barbecued for days without end. Having that in mind, I pose the question; would you voluntarily make yourself an ingredient for everlasting barbecue? Definitely not. Then, comrades, why do y’all keep on being accomplices to sins? I am preaching to hostel roommates who vacate the room when one of the comrades gets a visit from their girlfriend. You know very well that you are not giving the lovebirds privacy, so that they can kneel and pray together. You are much aware that the noises that will emanate from the hostel after you leave will not be songs of praise and hymns of worship. You voluntarily gave room to two sinners to eat the forbidden fruit and happily walked around saying your roommate has ‘exiled’ you. What does that make you? An accomplice! You will be exiled in heaven too! My message of redemption is directed to those ladies who help their roommate dress up on Friday evening, so that she can look dapper when she goes to meet her sponsor. You are much aware too that you are dressing a marriage wrecker. You adjudicate looks, suggest outfits and at times, even lend a dress, so that she can hit town with someone’s husband. Are you aware that his wife has been spending sleepless nights crying out to the heavens because of her husband’s misadventures? But there you are, every day, being a fashion judge, so that the home wrecker walks out of the hostel looking charmingly alluring like the witch she is. Do you know what that makes you, dearest fashionista? An accomplice! The same way you say “you look hot” after you are done dressing the marriage wrecker, is how you’ll be describing the situation as both of you dance in the hot inferno of hell! Do not allow your Visa to eternal life be revoked because you assisted a sinner. Lovebirds can’t wait for marriage and need the room for their sensual escapades? That’s not your problem, stay in the room! Your roommate can’t get the perfect outfit to go see her sponsor? That’s their problem! Let everyone carry their own cross (bad reference but you get the point). Stop being accomplices to sins that aren’t yours. Imagine being roasted in hell, next to serial killers and hardcore sinners, just because you excused some two people to ‘do their thing’. Hearken! Because I verily say unto thee, people shall wail and gnash their teeth!