Barry Silah @obel_barry Kenya’s Albert Njogu booked a semi-final berth after upsetting top seed Abdoul Shakur Kabura 6-2,6-4 in the ITF World Tennis Tour Junior Championships. The in-form fifth-seed was in his element as he brushed aside the favourite under sunny conditions at Nairobi Club. Njogu was quick in execution plus his varied game play completely threw off his opponent. His defence to attack transition was in awe as he made the Burundian sweat. The first set whereby Njogu dropped only two games was unusually off colour for Kabura who was last week’s losing finallist. His serve and return was ineffective with Njogu always almost smelling blood. He covered the court well and dutifully utilised balls to good effect overall. The follow up set saw the Burundian revived as twice he broke his challenger. Njogu had to be on alert with his play now more centred on the middle area where he won a couple of great points as Kabura stayed far off the line. At 2-2, he took advantage of Kabura’s double faults to open the gap and stay ahead. Njogu’s serve was his greatest asset with his opponent struggling to keep up. Indeed a lot of watchers from the stand expected the East African duel to go the mile but Kabura was for better part of the contest second best.Njogu wanted it so bad and went for the jugular as his coach Veronica Osogo urged her on from the terrace. “I am happy with my consistency which is giving me confidence. My strategy worked well and I was able to subdue my opponent .I know what to expect and therefore properly prepared. I want to go and win it,” Njogu told People Sport after his victory. Meanwhile, for the second straight week, Angela Okutoyi failed to get past the quarter-final stages following her 3-6, 5-7 loss to Moroccan fourth seed Salma Loudili in a disappointing match for the Kenyan. Okutoyi was hampered mostly by a series of errors that cost her crucial points even as the Moroccan opponent snuffed out any looming danger with precision. The opening set, Okutoyi begun with a bang as she picked three straight games thus putting her in good stead. Her control of serve was magnificent as Noudili seemed to struggle for rythm. However the Moroccan challenger came through breaking Okutoyi twice. A couple of double faults from the Kenyan saw Noudili pile in the pressure and in the process grind winners with a frustrated Okutoyi on the backfoot Results: Girls Singles Salma Loudili beat Angela Okutoyi:6-3,7-5 Yu Chin Tsai beat Nadezda Khaturina:6-2,7-6(6) Mialy Ranaivo beat Sara El Ghazouly:6-4,6-1 Boys Singles: Albert Njogu beat Abdul Shakur Kabura:6-2,64 Peter Sally beat Bruno Nahvene:6-4,6-2 Jasza Szarjrych beat Ming-Chieh Chiu:6-1,6-2 The sevens players refused to sign the new contracts which will see the senior players pocket Sh50,000 down from Sh140,000- Sh170,000. According to the stand off between the employer and the players, the players demand to be paid the same salaries while the union boss cannot afford to honour such a contract and will engage them once they get the money. “We are unhappy they were not able to renew contracts, but we thank them for the services. We are not closing the door to further discussions, as soon as a sponsor comes through, we can afford more money,” said Omwela. Meanwhile on the grounds of personal-undisclosed reason, on August 7 2018 former KRU CEO Ronald Bukusi handed in his resignation at the KRU offices to force the union to shift the former head of leagues and fixtures committee Sylvia Kamau to take over as his sit-in replacement. Former CEO Ronald Bukusi was one of the longest serving having returned to office on February 1 2015 to take over from Jack Okoth. Bukusi had previously stepped down from the KRU CEO position in year 2000 to pursue his MBA in Sports management in Chicago, USA having served for seven years. A statement on the appointment of Sylvia Kamau as the union CEO read, “The Kenya Rugby Union Board of Directors wishes to announce to all affiliates, sponsors and the rugby fraternity that is has confirmed Sylvia Kamau as CEO for an initial period of one year effective January 1 2019,” read the statement. The sports director at Strathmore University will still perform her role as a two-year KRU director role until March 2019 AGM