Derek Otieno and Robert Ochoro@PeopleSports11 Kenya’s pioneer Olympian, Nyandika Maiyoro, is dead. Tributes poured in as leaders from all walks of life sent condolences to the family, relatives and friends of the departed who died aged 88 on Sunday evening. The trailblazing Maiyoro, who competed for Kenya, under British colonial rule at the 1956 Olympics in Melbourne, Australia was pronounced dead by doctors at Christa Marianne Hospital, Kisii, at 8.51pm. He had been at the facility for three weeks. In a bad weekend for Kenya athletics another athlete from the same region, John Mayaka, who won bronze in 1974 Commonwealth Games in Christchurch, New Zealand, also died in Nyamira Level 5 Hospital. Mayaka was the first Kenyan to win medal of any colour at an international event following the exploits in New Zealand that nearly saw another Kenyan get close to medalling in the Racing Walk after Elisha Kasuku drifted away in the dying moments of the high technique event. His feat was repeated by Julius Yego after 30 years in 2014 during the Glasgow Commonwealth Games when he won gold in the same javelin discipline. Few athletes in the country gained respect like Maiyoro who over the years remained the second VIP in any athletics event in the country and a complement  whenever he appeared at events. Alongside Charles Asati and John Rudisha (two Olympians of his generation), Maiyoro’s devotion to the sport he loved and brought the country glory,  was immeasurable until his failing health restricted him to few journeys upcountry. Mzee Maiyoro was among Kenya’s first three competitors in athletics at the Olympics, a breakthrough achieved at the 1956 Games in Melbourne, where Kenya competed for the first time, as a British colony then. In Melbourne, he featured in the 5,000m and finished an impressive seventh (13 minutes, 53.25 seconds) with Kanuti Sum finishing 31st in the marathon (2:58:42) while Joseph Leresae was 18th in the high jump. Maiyoro and Sum were joined at the 1960 Olympics in Rome by three other athletes — Seraphine Antao (100m, 200m and 110m hurdles), Bartonjo Rotich (400m, 400m hurdles) and Arere Anentia (10,000m) — before paving way for the “Class of 64” at the 1964 Olympics in Tokyo where Wilson Kiprugut bagged Kenya’s first ever Olympic medal, a bronze in the 800m. Kenya’s sporting icon and contemporary Kipchoge Keino, who came on the heels of Nyantika’s era, said it was sad to lose pioneer athletes like Nyantika in such circumstances.