In what could be a tip of the iceberg of the deep-rooted rot in the country’s prisons, details have emerged of how an Iranian diplomat offered $150,000 (Sh15 million) to two Kenyan racketeers and Ghanaian to free convicted terrorists and sneak them to Tehran. According to an affidavit filed by detectives in court, the two Iranians Ahmad Abolfathi Mohammed and Sayed  Mansour Mousavi, the racketeers with the connivance of their contacts within Kamiti Maximum Prison were to execute a “smooth prison break” and ensure that they safely arrive in Tehran to enjoy their freedom. But the Iranian ambassador to Kenya, Hadi Farajvand, absolved the embassy from any involvement in the plot to buy freedom for his countrymen and blamed some unnamed persons of trying to blackmail him. Addressing the press at the embassy yesterday on the damning revelations, the envoy claimed some forces are unhappy with his government’s generous move to offer scholarships to some lecturers and students at Jomo Kenya University of Agriculture and Technology (JKUAT) to  study nanotechnology. The saga of two Iranians, who have been in jail over explosives recovered in Mombasa seven years ago, has taken interesting legal twists and turns in the corridors of the Kenyan justice system. The matter that has been adjudicated at various stages and convictions handed is still pending in the Supreme Court for the final determination. Yesterday, the three suspects — Wesley Kiptanui Kipkemoi (Prison Warder), Shemgrant Agyei (Ghanian) and lawyer Robin Bundi Nyangaresi—were ordered to spend the night in police cells pending a decision by a magistrate’s court on whether they will be detained for 30 days or not. Supreme court ruling Director of Public Prosecutions through his assistant Duncan Ondimu had sought to have them detained for a month for their active involvement in an elaborate scheme and execution for the escape of the two Iranians. He told Milimani principal magistrate Peter Ooko that the three suspects with the help of a senior diplomat with immunity at the Iranian embassy had allegedly plotted secure the release of the two Iranians from Kamiti Maximum Security Prison. “The DPP lodged an appeal to the Supreme Court. The petition lodged by the DPP was heard on December 11, 2018 before the Supreme Court. The appeal relates to two Iranian nationals Ahmad Abolofathi and Sayed Mansour, who are currently in custody pending decision of the Supreme Court,” he said. Ondimu said preliminary investigations show that the three suspects met on diverse dates with a diplomat at the Iranian embassy to allegedly plan the duo’s escape. He said the suspects, who on several occasions met the envoy in diverse places including shopping malls in Nairobi’s Westlands area and hotels in Hurlingham and the city’s central business district (CBD), should remain in custody for the police to conduct further investigations, including obtaining CCTV footage on the areas. “Some of the areas included premises covered under diplomatic immunity and there is need to seek assistance from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs,” he said. “The three met on diverse dates with a senior diplomat at the Iranian embassy and the main purpose of the discussion was on how to aid the escape of the two individuals”. Ondimu said the plan to facilitate the duo’s escape was hatched in May and June last year and, therefore, police asked more time to obtain call data records for the mobile numbers used by the suspects. The court further heard the prosecution was keen to obtain CCTV footage from Qatar Airways  offices where a flight for the two Iranians had been booked by Iranian embassy on February 10. Perusal of the air tickets showed that the two nationals and the said senior diplomat at the Iranian embassy were scheduled to leave on the same flight on February 11. vigorously pursued During ongoing investigations, several electronic gadgets have been recovered and have been submitted for forensic examination and the reports are yet to be obtained and analysed. Ondimu said the DPP believes that the three have other associates, who are yet to be apprehended and their arrest is being vigorously pursued by the security agencies. He said Kiptanui was introduced to senior diplomat at the Iranian embassy around May/June last year by a friend identified as A Okello. However,  the defence led by Cliff Ombeta opposed the application to continue detaining the three saying the prosecution have not tabled compelling reasons.