Mercy Mwai and PSCU @PeopleDailyKe President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday chaired the first Cabinet meeting this year in which establishment of a Counter-Improvised Explosive Device Centre (C-IED Centre) at Embakasi Garrison in Nairobi was approved. The meeting discussed and approved an agreement where Germany has offered to donate 1.8 million Euros (Sh208 million) for the construction of the C-IED Centre. The centre, which will be a constituent college of the International Peace Support Training Centre, will equip the Kenya Defence Forces personnel with the knowledge and technology to robustly detect and safely disarm IEDs. The knowledge will come handy especially during the period KDF will remain in Somalia where IEDs are often used by the al-Shabaab militia. The move comes at a time when IEDs have become al-Shabaab’s weapon of choice in its asymmetrical warfare in the major towns and main supply routes. IEDs are the leading cause of death of soldiers and police forces fighting terrorist and insurgent groups worldwide, with the worst hit areas in Kenya being Mandera, Garissa and along Kenya’s border with Somalia, although such attacks have also been seen in Nairobi. Between 2011 and 2015, 38 IED attacks that left 425 people, 336 of them civilian, dead or injured, were recorded. The IED is a “home-made” bomb that comes in many forms and levels of sophistication. They can be concealed on roads, carried in a bag or strapped to the body, or loaded on a car. The Cabinet also discussed and approved the hosting of the 23rd session of Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO)/World Health Organisation (WHO) Coordinating Committee meeting for Africa in Nairobi to be held from September 2 to 6. The conference is expected to be a boost to Kenya’s Big 4 agenda, especially the food security and nutrition pillar. The Cabinet meeting comes at a time when divisions are said to have rocked the Jubilee party over President Uhuru succession puzzle. The divisions are said to have been punctuated by Uhuru’s symbolic handshake with opposition leader Raila Odinga early last year. Last week Uhuru and his Deputy William Ruto are said to have met with top parliamentary leadership in a bid to forestall bitter fallout that had also threatened to paralyse government operations.