Murimi Mutiga @murimimutiga People holding an Australian doctor who was kidnapped near the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA) in November last year have demanded a Sh250 million ransom. The kidnappers raised the ransom from Sh9 million after the expiry a 14-day ultimatum they had given to his wife. Speaking for the first time to the media yesterday, the wife of Faiz Alhamed Ali, who was kidnapped by three armed men on November 24 while heading to JKIA to catch a flight to Mombasa, said the kidnappers made what they described as the “last ransom call” on Saturday saying they would kill the man if the money is not paid within the next few hours. Surprisingly, the Australian was kidnapped while he was with a police officer who had been assigned to offer him security after several attempts by unknown people to force themselves into his home. She said Alhamed, 42, was driving to the airport in his Toyota Hilux double cabin registration KCN 115 in the company of the police officer, his bank manager and a Muslim cleric only identified as Sheikh Ali. During the ordeal, the other three were unharmed. “When they made the first contact, they demanded Sh9 million. They gave him the phone to talk to me. He told me he was being tortured and pleaded with me to look for the Imam to take me to the house and collect the money,” she said. Alhamed works at the Nairobi Hospital and at the time of of the kidnap, he was on two-months leave. “We had planned to spend time together in Mombasa for one month and the other month in Australia where his family lives,” she said. The woman, whose identity we cannot reveal because of her security, said the Imam, the police officers and the bank manager have cut communication with her. “The abductors have been threatening to kill my him if the money is not paid fast. They called me for the second time at night and demanded that I take the money to one of their accomplices outside gate two of Wilson Airport, I have no money,” she said. “I have contacted the Australian embassy in Nairobi and they seem not keen to help me. They demanded that I bring documents to show where my Alhamed worked,” she added. The woman, who is a Ugandan national, said she reported the incident at the Kilimani police station in Nairobi but was referred to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations where she was again directed to the Anti-Terrorism Police Unit. “I was interrogated for hours. They took my phone and returned it after almost an hour. They promised to investigate the matter. It is after two days that I realized they had deleted the contacts and chats I had with the police officer who had been assigned to guard my husband,” said the woman. During the time of the kidnap, Alhamed had moved out of the house he was staying at Don-Bosco area opposite Kenyatta National Hospital (KNH) after three attempted intrusion by unknown men. “He felt insecure and was forced to relocate to another area. It was only Imam Ali who knew where he was living because he helped him relocate. I had not visited the house because he moved out the same week he was to come home for holiday,” she added. The woman has been married to Alhamed for nearly eight years and they have a six-year-old child. The two met in Comoros where the doctor worked in another hospital.