Interior Cabinet secretary Fred Matiang’i yesterday told his colleagues there is no room for failure and asked them to deliver on their mandate. Matiang’i reportedly told the CSs they were free to resign if not ready to implement President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda. He spoke when he chaired the first National Development Implementation and Communication Cabinet Committee. Sources, who attended the meeting that started at 7.30am, said Matiang’i told the ministers to show the status of all projects under their respective dockets. The meeting was attended by all Cabinet secretaries except Monica Juma (Foreign Affairs), who is out of the country on official duty. Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua was also present. On January 21,  Uhuru handed Matiang’i sweeping powers to oversight government programmes. In his new powerful role, Matiang’i will provide supervisory leadership throughout the delivery circle of all national government programmes and projects. Though details of the meeting remained scanty, an official privy to the gathering told People Daily Matiang’i was categorical about the President’s determination to deliver on all the promises made during his campaigns. Matiang’i directed his colleagues to compile details of all ongoing and stalled projects, including obstacles deterring their completion for onward briefing to Uhuru. Interior PS Karanja Kibicho said the committee identified challenges constraining effective execution and delivery of services and agreed to come up with recommendations on how to address them. Last Friday, Uhuru ordered ministers to cooperate with Matiang’i, saying anyone who was unhappy with the elevation should quit. Uhuru reminded the CSs he was the appointing authority and he would not hesitate to crack the whip on those sabotaging his agenda. Speaking later in Kitengela on his way to Arusha, the President told those who cannot meet the requirements of their jobs they were free to exit and pave way for other qualified Kenyans. Matiang’i was given powers to chair the committee, whose membership includes all Cabinet secretaries, the Attorney General and Head of the Public Service. According to Executive Order No.1 of 2019, Matiang’i will report directly to the President. In his new role, Matiang’i is expected to provide supervisory leadership throughout the delivery circle of all national government programmes and projects as well as receive and deliberate on reports from the National Development Implementation Technical Committee. He will provide timely guidance on appropriate measures to address challenges constraining effective implementation and delivery of projects. Further he is expected to monitor and evaluate follow-up mechanisms for resources allocated for the projects to ensure proper utilisation and realisation of the targeted outcomes, as well as provide coordinated strategic communication to the public and other stakeholders on the progress of the projects. Uhuru’s appointment comes as he rushes to implement his Big Four agenda; Food Security, Manufacturing (mainly focusing on job creation),  Universal Health Coverage and Affordable housing. Elsewhere, Rift Valley Regional Commissioner Mongo Chimwaga has directed heads of government agencies and ministries to make field visits to all State-funded projects and compile status reports. Chimwaga said in line with Uhuru’s directive that all departments must work in concert in supervising government projects, heads will be expected to make reports that reflect the reality on the ground. Speaking during the inaugural meeting of the Rift Valley Regional Development Implementation Coordination Committee at Nakuru Plenary Hall, the administrator warned departmental heads against ‘fabricating’ statistics and ‘cooking up’ status reports of projects. He said Geothermal Development Company (GDC) projects, among others, are set to be supervised.