DPPS @PeopleDailyKe Brexit will not affect Britain’s trade relations with Kenya. Penny Mordaunt, MP, Secretary of State for International Development and Minister for Women and Equalities said the country’s trade relations would be enhanced despite UK exiting the European Union. Speaking during a meeting with Deputy President William Ruto at the Department of International Development, in London, yesterday, Mordaunt assured Kenya Brexit will not affect trade ties. “Brexit will not affect us. Technology can now help us engage in trading activities and has made things easier,” said Mordaunt. Ruto said Kenya would continue to engage in activities that can enhance the existing cordial relations between the two countries. He arrived in London yesterday for a two-day visit aimed at promoting cooperation between the two countries in various fields of interest including trade and investments. The Deputy President said relations between the two countries were of great benefit to their citizens adding that  Kenya would continue to enhance the existing good relations with Britain in areas of trade, tourism investment and continued partnership on the fight against extremism. Ruto  praised the cordial relations and cooperation between the two countries in areas of trade and investment. The Deputy President highlighted the economic relationship between the two countries, which is mutually beneficial with Britain being the largest source of tourists and several British companies having their presence in Kenya. “The relations between Kenya and Britain are mutually beneficial, robust and friendly. This is why we want to continue enhancing it for the betterment of our citizens in terms of trade and investments,” said Dr Ruto. Ruto  said Britain has also played a major role in the development of Mombasa Port’s infrastructure, roads, besides supporting trade not only in Kenya but Africa in general. He said Kenya was also committed to working with Britain in addressing the issues of climate change and implementation of devolution in Kenya. And while addressing a group of businesspeople at a London hotel, the Deputy President asked them to take advantage of existing trade opportunities in Kenya. Ruto is expected to, among others, deliver a lecture at the Royal Institute of International Affairs, commonly known as Chatham House. The Chatham House lecture focuses on Kenya’s national unity and regional integration, challenges of inclusion, growth and change.