Winstone Chiseremi @Wchiseremi Deputy President William Ruto’s allies in the  North Rift region have cried foul over a multi-billion-shilling Standard Gauge Railway deal allegedly awarded to companies associated with Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho. They were reacting to media reports that two prominent Mombasa-based logistics firms, including one linked to Joho’s family, had been granted the lucrative deal in the transportation of bulk cargo over the Standard Gauge Railways. The deal involves transportation of cargo from Mombasa to Nairobi in a 10-year period at up to 80 per cent discounted rates. Led by Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago, the leaders questioned the rationale of awarding the deal to Grain Handlers Limited and Autoport Freight Terminals Ltd (AFTL). Mandago said it was demoralising that Opposition leaders, who have been fighting the government, were getting first priority in big contracts. He was referring to Joho’s criticism of the government’s plan to develop dry ports in Nairobi and Naivasha to handle the SGR cargo, saying it would kill businesses at the Coast. Joho has since softened his stand after the March 9 Handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga. Four years ago, Kenya Revenue Authority and Kenya Ports Authority suspended Autoport and Portside Freight Terminal Ltd over claims of tax evasion and smuggling of goods into the country. At the time, the Joho family did not disown ownership of the two companies as documents at the Registrar of Companies indicated the three firms have interlinked shareholders. “Mombasa governor does not deserve to benefit from the SGR deal because he has been fighting the government,” said Mandago. He was accompanied by his Nandi counterpart Stephen Sang, MPs Oscah Sudi (Kapseret ), Swarup Mishra ( Kesses) and several of Uasin Gishu and Nandi members of the county assemblies. Sang said Joho’s should not be given any deals by the government until he clears his name over myriad accusations levelled against him. Mandago said the Directorate of Criminal Investigations should investigate Joho’s alleged involvement in drug trafficking. “We are aware of the illicit business Joho has been engaging in that has destroyed the future of our youths and we will not keep quiet as he continues with his dirty deals,” vowed Sang. He told Joho he was ready to face him over the drug claims, saying he was not scared by threats. Sang said government deals should benefit those who campaigned for its victory in the last election and not Opposition leaders who undermined it. Sudi accused his colleagues from the Opposition of defending Joho over his alleged involvement in drug business. “I don’t understand how my colleagues from the Opposition can defend a leader who is linked to drug trafficking instead of condemning his illegal activities,” said Sudi. Twelve ODM MPs, led by Leader  of Minority Junet Mohamed, have dismissed claims that Mombasa governor was involved in drug trafficking as alleged by the Nandi governor and three Jubilee MPs Sudi, Didmus Barasa  (Kimilili) and Kimani Ichung’wa (Kikuyu). Joho has since sued the politicians over the claims. Sudi told Joho to keep off from DP’s 2022 succession politics saying they were aware of schemes by Ruto’s competitors to frustrate his quest to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta. “Plans have been hatched to frustrate DP’s presidential bid through propaganda perpetrated against him by politicians led by Mombasa governor,” clamed Sudi. Mishra called on his colleagues to slow down on 2022 succession politics to allow the government to implement multi-billion shilling projects.