Seth Onyango @SethManex The fate of Weston Hotel now hangs in the balance after it emerged the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority (KCAA) could reclaim the land by exploiting a lacuna in the gazette notice regarding the ownership of the land where it stands. The National Land Commission has recommended that the current market value of the land where Weston sits be determined and that the hotel pays the market price to KCAA. This is after the Commission found that although Weston is the bona-fide purchaser without notice of any defect in the title, at the time of valuation, the land was undervalued. Residential flats A report signed by then NLC vice chair Abigael Mbagaya says the commission admitted that the disputed land parcel belonged to KCAA but was allotted irregularly to two firms, which later sold it to Weston, owned by Deputy President William Ruto. Ruto reportedly acquired the land in 2007 for Sh10 million from its registered owners, Priority Management Limited and Monene Investments Limited. The two companies were allocated the two-acre parcel of land in January 1998 for 99 years to develop residential flats and apartments after paying a stand premium of Sh320,000. “The letter of allotment issued to Priority Limited and Monene Investment was irregular,” Mbagaya said. “The then Commissioner and Minister of Lands are to be blamed as they failed to act on the irregular allocation of the parcel.” In the gazette notice, which is legally binding, the payment by hotel to KCAA has been excluded, thus leaving the latter with the option to reclaim the land. According to a source in the know but who sought anonymity, KCAA is expected to go to court to push for the disposition of Weston Hotel’s claim to the ownership of the parcel of land where it sits. “It is expected to use the ambiguity in the gazette notice by arguing that since it has been established the parcel belongs to them and which was irregularly allotted, it should be given back,” said the source. The mismatch between the NLC report and the gazette notice is said to have been deliberate and could open another Pandora’s Box over the disputed property. The Weston Hotel land dispute was among the final reports inked by NLC commissioners before their exit following the completion of their tenure. Demolition push During an interview on BBC’s Hard Talk  a fortnight ago, DP Ruto said he was unaware that the land where Weston stands was fraudulently acquired. Ruto, however, stressed that he had followed due process while acquiring the land, which is mired in controversy. His admission of irregularity is also said to have bolstered KCAA’s case against Weston Hotel proprietors. It comes even as ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna called for the demolition of the hotel, arguing that it should not be spared, just like all other illegal structures. 