The hills around Baringo and Nakuru counties will reverberate with the roar of turbo charged machines when the opening round of the Kenya National Rally Championship (KNRC) gets underway Saturday. Defending champion Carl ‘Flash’” Tundo, Ian Duncan and Baldev Chager will be the star attractions in the event which will be flagged off at the KCB Mogotio branch and finish at the RVMSC Clubhouse Solai. Push harder With the scrapping of the B13 Class, which permitted drivers a bigger turbo restrictor and a sequential gearbox, Tundo and Chager will have to push a little bit harder against Onkar Rai’s Skoda Fabia R5. “In Nakuru we shall employ the same strategy, finish and finish well! Skoda has huge advantage at every level to be honest so not much we can do about that,” said Tundo. Baldev Chager who will be piloting a Kabras Sugar Racing Mitsubishi lance Evolution X said: “We shall just do the usual, the best we can. We aren’t looking forward to the 33mm restrictors again and normal h pattern gearbox. The larger 34mm restrictor and sequential boxes had added a little zest last year making the cars a little faster and fun to drive. So to keep up with the R5 category cars I guess we just have to try even harder this year.” The event has attracted 7 cars in the Premier Class and a similar number in KNRC Davison 1. Tejveer rai will be off the ramp first followed by Eric Bengi, Duncan, Tundo, defending back to back Nakuru champion Onkar Rai and Baldev Chager taking off sixth. Bengi (Menengai Cream Boys/Galz) will be making his debut in division One and hopes to take it easy before coming to grips with the car. He said: “We really want to take it easy in naks and finish the event. We need to get used to the new car and learn her well. By the third event we should hopefully start recording some good times. Later in the season our target is to hit a few podiums and record better career finishes than 4th last year. Let’s see how the season unfolds.” The division 1 category has Karan Patel who is back in his championship winning Subaru GC8. His EvoX couldn’t be entered in the rally after it rolled out in the ARC rally of Tanzania. Karan will fight it out with Mombasa based Ammar Haq and Sohanjeet Puee who won both the KNRC Divison 2 and Group S last season. Shakedown “Can’t wait to get back in the cockpit, the break has been long enough. The Nakuru event for us is a shakedown to shake off the cobwebs and reunite with the car after almost two months as we did a complete strip. As for the rest of the season we are in a new and more competitive division with more experienced drivers so it’s about keeping it as tidy as possible and hope for decent finishes,” Ammar said. Sohanjeet Singh Puee Said: “Nakuru Rally will be the first in the season and we are mainly aiming at a finished to secure some valuable points, so we will be approaching it cautiously but still try to maintain a reasonable pace. Our strategy for the season is simply aim to finish and score points but also to set some good stage times wherever we can, however we are still unable to secure a sponsor so it will be difficult to do the whole season but we are still trying to gain sponsorship so only time will tell.”