Could you describe your shopping platform, Mzizzi? Mzizzi is  an online shop platform, that provides free e-commerce shops with inbuilt payments, and delivery for purchased products by Delivery by Mzizzi. Mzizzi has hundreds of merchants on the platform, but Mzizzi, of course, isn’t selling products directly. What we do is the help merchants; help entrepreneurs who want to sell products do it themselves. Have you always had a passion for technology and change? I have been in the technology business for the last 10years and together with other partners we’ve developed platforms such as NyeriOnline that went online to receive recognition internationally from giants like Google. Technology empowers businesses and I’ve always had a passion to see it work for others. Why E-Commerce? E-commerce, and retail in general, is an incredible opportunity. In Kenya the penetration of e-commerce is less than 5per cent, Africa wide the percentage is even smaller. E-commerce solutions in Africa do not consider the unique dynamics of how trust and technology relate, thus the penetration of Ecommerce though growing is very slow. E-commerce is still broken and fractured and huge. Across Africa there are over 12 million small traders, selling over $100 billion of goods. They however struggle with market reach and the cost of online infrastructure is still very high. The Mzizzi mission is to provide e-commerce tools that are affordable and world class that drive growth and improve lives. Therefore, it represents, probably, one of the largest economic potentials to most people out there. Do you think e-commerce has a future in Kenya and Africa? Very much so, every culture keeps evolving in the way that it does commerce. As an example, several years back, trade used to happen around markets on specific days, you had to plan on what to buy in advance otherwise you’d have to wait until the next market day. Then came dukas and shopping malls, now customers want their goods now. I want to enjoy the convenience of shopping while I’m in the office or at home and get the items delivered as soon as possible. This is just the beginning of what e-commerce can be. Which company’s success do you draw inspiration from and what makes Mzizzi different? Companies such as Alibaba are great examples of companies that have used e-commerce to change how the world buys. They’ve advanced so much to a point that you walk into a restaurant, order food online and have it delivered by a robot. Mzizzi is different from e-commerce marketplaces; we empower entrepreneurs and businesses to do business online. We don’t sell goods ourselves but instead help brands to go and grow online. We provide easy payment platforms and even take care of deliveries to customers. How do you plan to address the issue of knock-off goods on the platform? We are very strict about fake goods on our platform and police all the stores and companies that sell through us. We have even taken down several stores that were selling replica items of major brands. Occasionally a store may pass under our radar, but once we notice it we take immediate action. What is the most important device in your work? A laptop. ·Apart from Mzizzi have you ever tried to come up with another app unsuccessfully? There have been several failures as with any entrepreneur, but I’ve learnt from the past failures and use those lessons to become better. ·How can the government support digital commerce? Governments can help digital commerce by both sourcing and paying for government goods. Companies could be encouraged to provide online catalogues of the goods that they supply and get paid online. This can make it more liberal and open and increase empowerment of the youth. What is your opinion on cryptocurrency? Cryptocurrency is a good invention but still has a long way to go. I think it isn’t mature enough yet for proper commercial adoption. Cases like where a founder died with cryptocurrency keys show that it is still quite young What is the most vital software/apps in your line of work? Communication tools such as WhatsApp make our work much easier. We can share lots of information with both merchants and customers What’s been your most disappointing tech purchase? A fake electric blower.