Mercy Mwai @wangumarci The divisions rocking the National Super Alliance (Nasa) coalition deepened yesterday after two of the coalition co-principals told Raila Odinga’s Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) to prepare for a bruising battle in the Embakasi South parliamentary by-election slated for April 5. Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka and Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetang’ula lashed out at ODM for failing to withdraw its candidate Irshad Sumra from the race. While campaigning for Wiper’s candidate Julius Mawathe, Kalonzo and Wetang’ula vowed to do everything possible to ensure Mawathe clinches the seat. In particular, Kalonzo, who promised to deliver the seat to Wiper, accused Raila of turning down his invitation to campaign for Mawathe yet he knows very well that the seat belongs to Wiper. According to him, ODM should have left the seat to Wiper not only because of the spirit of the coalition but also because Wiper party has previously supported the party. “Niliita Raila hakukuja..we’ll deliver this seat..ODM haina huruma kwa sababu tulienda huko tukaisupport…hii kiti moja tu ya Embakasi South si wangetuachia? Weta na Mudavadi tulielewana kwa sababu ya kanuni na mwongozo wetu. (I invited Raila to come but he declined. We will, however, deliver this seat. ODM has no sympathy even for that one seat yet we all supported it previously. They should have left it to us. Wetang’ula and Mudavadi agreed to support us because of our coalition’s aspirations),” he said. Successful petition While saying that they are sure of a win, Kalonzo told Sumra to be prepared for a resounding defeat even as he insisted that all coalition partners should be ready to support one another for them to grow. According to him, the coalition partners should be ready to work together especially now that they have declared their support for President Uhuru Kenyatta. “There is no ill motive from us but we will teach Sumra a lesson. He should have just left this seat to us. All I can say is that everything is possible in terms of making coalitions. This coalition is going to grow bigger and bigger now that all of us have agreed to support Uhuru,” he said. Wetang’ula, who is also the Bungoma Senator, said he had decided to campaign for Mawathe because the seat belonged to him as he is the one who had won in the August 7, 2017 General Election. According to Wetang’ula, all his MPs are behind Wiper and thus will do everything possible to ensure that it clinches the seat. The seat fell vacant after the Supreme Court nullified Mawathe’s 2017 win following a successful petition by Sumra.