Alvin Mwangi and Mercy Gacheche @PeopleDailyKe The health sector kicked off the new week in a crisis as nurses employed by the National government joined their colleagues in 13 counties in the ongoing industrial action, now in its eighth day. Like their colleagues in counties, the National government nurses are demanding full implementation of their return-to-work formula and promotions deal. They have vowed they will not resume duty until the demands are met. “Our promotions have stalled since 2009 yet the law demands we should be promoted after every three  years.  Some of our colleagues, who have papers, have stagnated in the same job group for more than 15 years,” said Karen Nyawira, a psychiatric nurse at Mathari National Hospital. The strike was organised by the  Kenya National Union of Nurses (Knun) to demand implementation of an agreement they entered with the Council of Governors (CoG) and the national government. Nurses drawn from Mathari National Referral Hospital, National Spinal Injury Hospital, Kenya National Blood Transfusion Service and those deployed to airports, all under the Health ministry, claimed the government has neglected them for a long time despite working tirelessly to save lives. The nurses have also called for a staff audit, saying they are understaffed even after the government said there are 1,200 nurses working under the national government. Stanley Nderitu, a nurse at the Spinal injury hospital, cliamed the figures given by the government are an exaggeration, adding that there are less than 300 nurses working under the national government. “ It’s very unfortunate when the government lies to its citizens, we are less than 300 nurses yet we handle hundreds of patients in our various facilities,” he said. Currently, Mathari hospital has 168 nurses, Spinal facility (48) while airports and the Blood Transfusion Service have less than 30 nurses. The health crisis is expected  to deepen as more counties are set to join their colleagues in pushing the county governments to fully pay uniform and service allowance as agreed in November, 2017. So far, health services in 10 counties have been crippled with nurses maintaining they will only return to work after their demands are met. The strike kicked off yesterday in Taita Taveta, Elgeyo Marakwet, Trans Nzoia, Kisumu, Kisii, Homabay, Marsabit, Wajir, West Pokot and Kirinyaga county where only Machakos, Migori, Kwale, Nairobi, Vihiga and Mombasa counties have fully paid the allowances. “The strike is still on and we will not call it off until all the county governments have honoured the return-to-work agreement. We will not relent,” said Knun secretary general Seth Panyako. In  Kisii, nurses  vowed to continue holding demonstrations to coerce the county government implement the return-to-work formula. Clinical officers have threatened to down tools following stalling of negotiations on their collective bargaining agreement (CBA).