Felix Yegon and Benard Gitau Deputy President William Ruto has asked Kenyans to “ignore propaganda being peddled against me” saying he is firm in his position as President Uhuru Kenyatta’s assistant. He urged Kenyans to, instead, support the government in its effort to deliver the campaign-time pledges. Addressing  residents of Bomet at the Silibwet grounds on Saturday, Ruto accused his detractors of peddling falsehoods on both mainstream and social media. He vowed to remain focused on his mandate adding that time for politics and jostling for positions was long gone and the government was now channelling energies on fulfilling  promises. Fulfil pledges He said Kenyans had exercised their rights by electing them into office and as such, they should strive to ensure their promises are accomplished. The DP was presiding over a marathon aimed at raising money for National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) fee for needy families from the county. Sh87 million was raised during the event with both Ruto and President Uhuru contributing Sh5 million each while the six MPs from the region each setting Sh2 million from their respective CDF kitties towards the course. Bomet county has already set aside Sh60 million this financial year towards covering 10,000 families and intends to increase the number of beneficiaries with proceeds from the marathon. It also plans to set aside a similar amount each financial year towards the course. NHIF cover costs Sh6,000 per year for one household. Medical services Ruto had earlier commissioned the new CT scan equipments for Longisa County Referral Hospital. Speaking during the launch, Ruto said the centre at Longisa Referral Hospital would save patients from to travelling to Nairobi or Eldoret to seek specialised medical services. The US National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) report shows Kenya has one of the highest incidence rates of esophageal cancer (EC) on the continent with a rate of 17.6 per 100,000. Oesophageal cancer is the top killer in Kenya ahead of cervix, breast, stomach and prostate cancers with 4,354 deaths every year. “Our intention is to ensure all equipment in all our hospitals are modern and state-of-the-art,” he said. “Henceforth, you will not have to travel to Nairobi or Eldoret to seek those specialised medical services. It will be done from here,” DP added, during the event also attended by governors Laboso (Bomet), Paul Chepkwony (Kericho),  Samuel Tunai (Narok) and a host of MPs and MCAs from the region.