Mercy Mwai @wangumarci Teachers Service Commission (TSC) yesterday said it requires about Sh20 billion to hire 87,393 interns to meet the current teachers shortage in the country. The move came as it emerged that the third phase of the implementation of Collective Bargain Agreement (CBA), that will see teachers getting a salary increment, may not be effected as the said money was not factored in the Budget Policy Statement. Appearing before the Education committee, TSC chairperson Nancy Macharia said they require an additional Sh13 billion to implement the CBA that is due in July 2019. Already, TSC has implemented the first and second phase of the CBA that is to run for four years. In 2017, the TSC and Kenya National Union of Teachers (Knut) agreed on a Sh54 billion deal to be implemented on a four year period. “The third phase is due for implementation in July 2019. The estimated additional cost is Sh13 billion, which was not provided in the budget Policy Statement,” she said. On hiring of the intern teachers, Macharia told the committee that she will be forwarding to them a legal framework and proposal on how they intend to achieve this. She said just like other sectors, the government should allow them to employ the interns to address the current shortage which stands at 37,643 teachers for primary school and 49, 750 for post primary school. The committee, led by chairperson Julius Melly (Tinderet MP) directed the TSC boss to come up with a policy framework on the same and bring it before the House team by Monday next week, for them to table it before the budget and appropriations committee. Kilome MP Thaddeus Nzambia said  the worst affected areas should be given priority to ensure there is regional balance in the employment. “The employment of interns and promotion of teachers to higher job groups needs to be done in all regions, the process should be fair,” he said. Macharia who had appeared to defend the commission’s budget, also said  they require Sh6.5 billion to hire an additional 10, 000  teachers as well as another Sh3 billion to hire 4,700 teachers for the 100 per cent transition.