Tributes poured in as leaders from all walks of life sent condolences to the family, relatives and friends of Kenya’s pioneer Olympian, Nyantika Maiyoro, who died on Sunday evening. The trailblazing Maiyoro, who competed for Kenya, under British colonial rule at the 1956 Olympics in Melbourne, Australia was pronounced dead by doctors at Christa Marianne Hospital, Kisii, at 8.51pm. He had been at the facility for three weeks. In a bad weekend for Kenya athletics another athlete from the same region, John Mayaka, who won bronze in 1974 Commonwealth Games in Christchurch, New Zealand, also died in Nyamira Level 5 hospital. Mayaka remains the first Kenyan to win medal of any colour at an international event following the exploits in New Zealand that nearly saw another Kenyan get close to medalling in the Racing Walk after Elisha Kasuku drifted away in the dying moments of the high technique event. His feat was repeated by Julius Yego after 30 years in 2014 during the Glasgow Commonwealth Games when he won gold in the same javelin discipline. Few athletes in the country gained respect like Maiyoro who over the years remained the second VIP in any athleteics event in the country and a mention whenever he appeared at events.  Alongside Charles Asati and John Rudisha (two Olympians of his generation), Maiyoro’s devotion to the sport he loved and brought the country glory,  was immeasurable until his failing health restricted him to few journeys upcountry. Mzee Maiyoro was among Kenya’s first three competitors in athletics at the Olympics, a breakthrough achieved at the 1956 Games in Melbourne, where Kenya competed for the first time, as a British colony then. In Melbourne, he featured in the 5,000 metres and finished an impressive seventh (13 minutes, 53.25 seconds) with Kanuti Sum finishing 31st in the marathon (2:58:42) while Joseph Leresae was 18th in the high jump. Maiyoro and Sum were joined at the 1960 Olympics in Rome by three other athletes — Seraphine Antao (100 metres, 200 metres and 110 metres hurdles), Bartonjo Rotich (400m, 400m hurdles) and Arere Anentia (10,000m) — before paving way for the “Class of 64” at the 1964 Olympics in Tokyo where Wilson Kiprugut bagged Kenya’s first ever Olympic medal, a bronze in the 800 metres. Kenya’s sporting icon and contemporary Kipchoge Keino, who came on the heels of Nyantika’s era, said it was sad to lose pioneer athletes like Nyantika in such circumstances. “It’s shocking to hear the double tragedy in Gusiiland. They did a lot for the country. I send my personal condolences and those of pioneer athletes to the family, friends and relatives of the late Nyantika,” said Keino. “I learnt a lot from Nyantika and the first generation of Kenyan Olympics like Kanuti Sum, Bartonjo Rotich, Kiptalam Keter, Kimaru Songok and others, which inspired us to take the Kenyan name higher,” said Keino, who won two Olympic gold medals in 1968 and 1972. Athletics Kenya (AK) President, Lt Gen (Rtd) Jackson Tuwei and NOC-K President Paul Tergat also sent their condolences to the family and entire athletics fraternity. “I have learned with great shock the double tragedy in Gusiiland, which has robbed us of John Mayaka, who was a great javelin thrower for Kenya and Armed Forces, and Nyantika Maiyoro,” said Lt Gen Tuwei. “I join the athletics family during this sad moment and urge fellow athletes to join the families of the departed colleagues in prayers during this sad moment,” he said. On the other hand, Mayaka quietly slid to his death on Saturday after a difficult few weeks, whoch included an appeal for help. Other condolences came from AK Executive officials Paul Mutwii (senior VP), Kibet Jinaro and Fatuma Awale (Vice Presidents), various AK regional and institutional chairmen – Benjamin Njoga (Prisons), David Miano (Central) AK PRO Evans Bosire also condoled with the families of Nyantika and John Mayaka “It’s very said time for us to lose two heroes. May the almighty father guide the families of mzee Nyantika and mzee Mayaka during this sad moment.” Former athletes Robert Ouko, Charles Asati, Hezekiah Nyamau, Rose Tata Muya, Tecla Sang and Patrick also sent their messages of condolences as did Athletes Representatives Milka Chemos, David Rudisha and their predecessor Benjamin Limo.