Bernard Gitau @benagitau The National Police Service (NPS) has joined potato seedling production to address the gap in supply of certified seeds in the country. While mandated by law to address insecurity issues by maintaining law and order, police will now also tackle food insecurity. National Potato Council of Kenya (NPCK) said National Youth Service (NYS) in partnership with the Kenya Police Service have ventured into the seed industry and have set up aeroponics potato seed production units in Tumaini, Nyandarua county. The council welcomed the move, saying the industry has been facing a great challenge in seed  production. Agrico EA, Kisima Farm, GTIL, Stock Man Rozen, Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC) and Kalro, are among the largest producers of certified seed potato but the country faces a 98 per cent deficit. “The combined production can only satisfy two per cent of the total certified seed demand,” the council said in a statement. This is equivalent to 3,000 tonnes of seed against a demand of 300,000 tonnes. The project is expected to be officially launched by Public Service Cabinet secretary Margaret Kobia, Fred Matiang’i (Interior) and Mwangi Kiunjuri (Agriculture) at Tumaini NYS centre. Potato is the second most important food crop after maize in the country and is cultivated by more than 900,000 growers, who are mostly small holder, fetching over Sh50 billion. Commercial potato production is at 150ha but production is curtailed by lack of certified seed where expected average production in 1ha of land is 40-50 tonnes but farmers produce about seven tonnes. The shortage of quality seeds and potato planting materials has prompted the government to import potatoes from Netherlands. NPCK said some of the challenges facing the industry are lack of an elaborate plan to increase and sustain seed production, distribution and use that is supported by the government, development partners, and stakeholders. Seed potato inspection processes are also reportedly inefficient, often delayed and occasionally  provide false results. The council said the most widely adopted farmer varieties have not been taken up by the government and research institutions for characterisation, cleaning and availing their quality seed to farmers. NPCK has called for implementation of Kenya Plant Protection Act, Cap 324 and Seeds and Plant Varieties Act, CAP 326 and where necessary updating them to protect and guide the growth the potato sub-sector. Some of the diseases that affect potato are Dicheya ssp, Late blight Mating type 2 and Bacterial Ring Rot.