Amani National Congress party leader Musalia Mudavadi yesterday threatened to call for mass action if the government doesn’t crack the whip on those implicated in high-level graft. In his words, time is over for political rhetoric and Kenyans want to see “handcuffs and not Handshakes”. It all sounds very well put. Again, it is in order to pressure the government to act rightly, but we disagree on the modus operandi of helping to arrest corruption, with all its attendant consequences and effects on society, as proposed by Mudavadi. First, it is inaccurate and insincere for Mudavadi to say “it is time the government started to crack down on purveyors of graft”. This war started years ago with several fairly high-level prosecutions, some of which are in progress involving suspects and beneficiaries of graft. Further, both the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) and the Directorate of Public Prosecutions (DPP) have demonstrated gusto and alacrity in the pursuit of those reaping where they did not sow, and the results are fairly obvious in terms of arrests and prosecutions. It is not within our purview to hold brief for those two offices, or indeed for the government, but while not enough may have been done in bringing suspects to book, it is not right or even fair to say nothing has been done! Legal and ethical means We hold the view that in asking the government to do more, it should be in an atmosphere devoid of threats likely to incite the people against the government. It is unfortunate for anyone to issue threats touching on the very security of the nation. We advocate a method of solving national challenges using legal and ethical means, and within the law. Kenyans paid for the new Constitution with sweat and blood, and it would be a pity if we would choose the path of abrogating the law to suit political whims. That is not the way to go. Mudavadi is within his rights to speak his mind about matters of national concern, but it is another kettle of fish altogether to issue threats that could cause public disorder or acts of lawlessness. How would this cause further arrests of graft suspects? Mass action is not a solution to our collective challenges!  A sober debate devoid of politics and well-reasoned arguments should guide the anti-graft discourse among other national challenges.