Wanjiru Njiru is a lifestyle vlogger who has been entertaining netizens on Youtube for over four years now. The economics and finance graduate has an inimitable elegant yet simple sense of style. Njeri Maina caught up with her to talk all things fashion and lifestyle Tell us about your journey into vlogging and life as a social media personality? I uploaded my first video in 2015 and since then, I have been working on my consistency. Towards the end of 2018 into 2019, I finally got the hang of it and I am doing pretty great. What is the one thing you have learnt in your vlogging journey? There is great reward in being consistent. Believe in yourself a whole lot! Hype yourself up all the time! Three things people do not know about you? I cannot ride a bike to save my life. I sure hope the apocalypse does not necessitate any cycling prowess. I also wanted to head an insurance company when I was a kid. I believe that I am an amazing singer and I’m currently working hard on being featured on one of my boyfriend Ben Cyco’s songs. Just kidding, or am I? Describe your style in three words? Fun, street style inspired, simple. Has your style evolved over time? If yes, how? I am now more confident in my choices. I don’t worry about trends anymore. I am only about what makes me feel good. What is your best fashion buy? My Zara leather jacket, which reminds me, when is the cold season starting again? I haven’t been wearing it. I would hate for it to feel neglected. Five Things we would find in your handbag right now? My ATM card, Fenty gloss, vlogging camera, phone charger and earphones (they should count as one item really) and for some weird reason, don’t ask me which, I have a packet of hair pins. Who are your style icons and why? My icons change from time to time. Right now, I am into modest fashion, even though I don’t think I would pull it off as great as YASMIN AF does on her Instagram and in real life.  She is a Kenyan and is my style icon at the moment. Do you have a morning beauty routine and how does that look like? I really don’t have one. But with the hot season, I always strive to slather on some sunscreen before leaving the house. Though I forget sometimes. What fashion items do you think should be a staple in every girl’s wardrobe? White T-shirt. I repeat, white T-shirt. One last time for the guys at the back, white T-shirt. What male fashion fad do you think should be banned? These huge chunky belt buckles. Please, let’s not. Let’s keep it cute and simple. You and your long time boyfriend Ben Cyco are normally seen in events looking quite dapper. What is the secret to dressing well as a couple? The only secret is for the girls. Please make sure you pick his outfits. Don’t trust his sense of style. Haha. I hope Ben does not read this. What is your best fashion hack? Wear whatever you want. Wear it for you and only you. It works wonders, as you are not looking for external validation. What is the one life hack you absolutely live by? More of a life mantra: That everything works out in the end, keep showing up. It works out, just keep at it.