Kenya Roads Board (KRB) ensures there is equitable disbursement of funding to international, national, primary, secondary and rural roads in the country. Here is a list of costly projects overseen and undertaken by KRB in the recent past according to Construction Kenya and KRB reports 1. Isiolo-Moyale Road The road was commissioned in June 2017 at a cost of Sh42 billion. It connects Kenya with Ethiopia and is a key plank of the Lamu Port-South Sudan-Ethiopia (Lapsset) corridor project. It was implemented in three phases: the 121km Merille River-Marsabit, 121km Marsabit-Turbi and the 121km Turbi-Moyale. Coupled with the planned resort city of Isiolo as well as the Isiolo International Airport, the Isiolo-Moyale road will significantly boost security and tourism in Northern Kenya. 2. Mwatate-Taveta Roads The 99km Mwatate-Taveta road was constructed at a cost of Sh8.4 billion and is part of the multinational highway linking the Kenyan town of Voi and the Tanzanian city of Arusha under Kenya National Highways Authority management. The road was jointly funded by the African Development Bank (AfDB) and the government.The Mwatate-Taveta road is approximately 90km long, with an additional nine kilometre spur road that serves Taveta town. It covers three districts; Voi, Mwatate and Taveta. 3. Eldoret-Webuye Road The construction of the Sh7.4 billion, 80km Eldoret-Webuye-Malaba highway, which links Kenya to Uganda, has helped ease movement of goods within the region. The EU and the government funded the project which was constructed by Chinese firm Maltauro Construction Company. The road is a key link in the Great Lakes region and is expected to help boost regional trade. The new road from Eldoret, measuring about 80km, will go through parts of Nandi county and link to Kakamega. 4. Timboroa-Eldoret Constructed under the supervision of Kenya Highways Authority (Kenha) in 2015 and funding from AfDB, the Sh3.5 billion road covers 76km. The project revamp, done by China Wu Yi Company, has significantly cut down the cost of travel for locals. The road passes through the trading centres of Timboroa, Nabkoi, Kondoo, Burnt Forest, Cheptiret and Eldoret. The road has increased transit cargo and intra-regional trade between Kenya and the great lakes region countries. 5. Nairobi-Thika Superhighway This 50kms, eight-lane and Sh36 billion mega infrastructural project starting from Nairobi and running to the outskirts of Thika town was a first of its kind in Kenya. The superhighway is expected to help Kenya realise attain a middle-income status by 2030. The Nairobi-Thika superhighway covers several locations such as Marsabit, Isiolo and Moyale. The AfDB, Exim Bank of China and government funded project was constructed by China Wu Yi Company, Sinohydro Corporation and Sheng Li Engineering Construction. 6. Kisumu-Kakamega Highway This project that cost Sh7.9 billion began taking shape in July 2017 in Kisumu town from Mamboleo area off Kisumu town. The 46.5kms project, funded by the Exchequer and the World Bank, is being implemented by China Overseas Engineering Group Co Ltd (Covec) under the supervision of H. P. Gau-Ingenieure GmbH & Co KG – JBG within a contract period of 41 months. 7. Nairobi Southern Bypass The Nairobi Southern Bypass project involved construction of a 28.6km dual carriageway with 12km slip roads and an extra 8.5km service roads. The Sh17.1 billion project is 85 per cent funded by China’s Exim Bank with the government footing the remaining 15 per cent. The road is meant to reduce congestion in Nairobi by providing an alternative route for motorists going to western Kenya and other destinations. Motorists enter the bypass from the Nairobi-Mombasa highway near Park Side Towers. 8. Miritini-Mwache-Kipevu Link Road The 10km road project cost Sh11.5 billion. It is constructed 22km from Mombasa town and will ease cargo transfer to inland points. This will reduce congestion at the port, making it more competitive. The project was jointly funded by the government and the Japan International Cooperation Agency. Construction began in 2015. The route links the Mombasa port, Moi International Airport, the SGR Mombasa Terminal and the Mombasa-Nairobi highway — to the upcoming Mombasa Northern By-pass. 9. Outer Ring Road This project was implemented under Kenya Urban Roads Authority and cost Sh9.3 billion and was majorly put in to ease traffic along the highly populated Eastlands suburbs. The road was cleared and commissioned last year and completion of outstanding work including footbridges, street lighting, landscaping, construction of fresh produce market at Kangundo Road Junction and construction of service roads is ongoing. 10. Dongo Kundu Bypass Construction of Phase Two of the Dongo Kundu bypass in Mombasa followed shortly after completion of the Phase One that cost Sh39 billion. The project that is estimated at Sh25 billion, will involve construction of an interchange at the Likoni-Lunga Lunga highway and installation of two bridges: one at Mwache – spanning 900 metres, and a second one at Mteza straddling 1.4km. Construction of the segment commenced in July 2016 and was completed in June at a cost of Sh11 billion.