Ericson Kiprono @PeopleSports11 The top eight qualifiers to the Kenya Open Golf Championship will be decided at the final Safari Tour event to be held at the Windsor Golf Hotel and Country Club from February 16-20. Kenya Open Tournament Director Patrick Obath says the Safari Tour was the principal ranking route for qualification into the Kenya Open. “Since August 2018, we have staged five Safari Tour events and at each of these legs, the golf professionals have been awarded points based on their performance. The better the performance, the more points gained,” Obath said. Muthaiga’s Greg Snow currently leads the Safari Tour ranking with 95.5 points following victories at Vet Lab, Limuru, Thika and Muthaiga as well as a fourth place finish at Nyali. Snow was on top form at Muthaiga, winning the leg with a 15-stroke lead. Mumias resident professional Dismas Indiza is second with 92 points, having been consistent throughout the tour. He finished second in Nyali, lost to Snow in a playoff at Vet Lab, was T3 in Limuru, second at Thika and got a T2 at Muthaiga. Golf Park’s David Wakhu is third with 61.5 points. He was victorious at the first Safari Tour event at Nyali but has been inconsistent since, failing to score a single point in Thika. Kenya’s most decorated pro at the Kenya Open, Jacob Okello is currently joint ninth with 42.5 points, only five shy of eighth-placed Justus Madoya. Okello, Nyali’s Ngugi Njuguna and Uganda’s Philip Kasozi have a mathematical chance of qualifying after the Windsor leg. Only Snow and Indiza are safe as Wakhu requires 1.5 points at Windsor to finish among the top eighth and qualify for the Kenya Open while Charania, who will be playing on his home course, will need at least 3.5 points to qualify. Indiza will go to Windsor looking for his maiden victory at the Safari tour while Snow will be looking to prove that his resounding victory at Muthaiga was not a fluke. Wakhu, Charania, Ngige and Wangai will be fighting for a place in the top eight and an automatic place in the Kenya Open. Only 17 pros have a chance to make it into the top eight of the Safari Tour. In addition to the Kenya Open qualification slots, the pros will be playing for a total prize kitty of Sh3million courtesy of Magical Kenya, Barclays Bank of Kenya and Johnnie Walker with the winner of the Windsor leg set to take home Sh450,000.