Ohio, Thursday The icy winds of the polar vortex have set US teeth chattering, blowing in a flurry of quirky results, from “frost quakes” to burning railway tracks – and a debate on whether Americans are going soft. Cryoseisms — also known as “frost quakes” — have been reported by Ohio and Pennsylvania residents who have been hearing loud booms from the ground. The quakes are caused when large amounts of moisture settle into the earth from snow and rain, then a rapid plunge in temperature causes the ice to explosively expand. “It sounded like a big piece of furniture fell over,” Dillsburg, Pennsylvania, resident Michelle Tebbetts told WHP-TV. “These frost quakes, they sound more like a boom or a bang and then we get a little shake in the house,” said Steven Tebbetts. Kentucky Governor Matt Bevin, whose state is experiencing temperatures of -14°C (6F), lamented school closures in a radio interview on Tuesday. “I mean, what happens to America?” the Republican said, twice adding: “We’re getting soft.” “I’m being only slightly facetious,” he said, “but it does concern me a little bit that in America on this and any number of other fronts, we’re sending messages to our young people that if life is hard you can curl up in the foetal position — somewhere in a warm place — and wait till it stops being hard, and that just isn’t reality, it just isn’t.” The Kentucky Education Association said in a statement on Twitter: “We will always support decisions made for the health & safety of Kentucky’s children. Always.” Residents in at least 10 US states won’t be receiving their mail on Wednesday, as the chill has caused the US Postal Service to cancel deliveries. It’s not the first time that mail has been cancelled due to weather, but typically that has been due to massive amounts of snow accumulated on roads by drifting winds. So much for the US Postal Service’s unofficial motto: “Neither snow nor rain nor heat nor gloom of night stays these couriers from the swift completion of their appointed rounds.” The National Weather Service has warned that people in Iowa should “avoid taking deep breaths” and “minimise talking” while exposed to the cold. “Dry, extremely cold air can irritate the lungs, cause shortness of breath and trigger asthma attacks for those with lung-related diseases like asthma,” the American Lung Association said in a warning. —BBC