The painstaking efforts stretching three decades that regional countries and the international community have endured to pull Somalia out of nihilist decay characterised by warlordism could go up in smoke unless the diplomatic stand-off between Kenya and Somalia over the sale of oil and gas blocks in contested areas in the Indian Ocean is resolved. That Kenya, which has paid the heaviest price in terms of security, especially terrorism, and carried the bulk of refugee burden, should feel unappreciated—and even betrayed—by a neighbour was aptly captured by Foreign Affairs Principal secretary Macharia Kamau’s sentiments. “It is tragic and most regretful that the Government of Somalia has chosen to take this action against a people and a State that has stood with the Somali people through incredible humanitarian and political hardships…” he said. The diplomatic spat triggered by the reported auctioning in London of the fuel deposits blocks in the disputed boundaries in the Indian Ocean, could also trigger a catastrophic humanitarian crisis in the East African region and put to shame the sacrifices— blood, lives, energy, emotional and huge financial cost—by Kenya and other  Inter-Governmental Authority on Development (Igad) members to rebuild troubled Somalia. But why did Kenya so uncharacteristically react to the reported auction of the blocks? To some diplomatic experts, it is was a necessary pre-emptive strike to forestall any further action and up the stakes in the dispute—and thus bring the parties to the negotiating table, a position Nairobi has been pushing for. Nairobi’s contention in response as expressed by former Attorney General Githu Muigai in 2006, even as Somalia took the row to international court in The Hague, is that as neighbours, the most effective approach was to sit down and thrash out any fraternal territorial dispute without having to revert to court. Kenya’s  reaction yesterday drew a moderated response from Mogadishu, which denied any sale of the oil and gas block in the disputed area, even as Kenya insisted that  she withdraws the auction move made to the investor said to be behind the gas and oil auction. A source familiar with the deal entered by Somalia said Mogadishu had already entered into multi-billion-dollar deals with companies in Norway, the United Kingdom and France. The Somali government has been working with Spectrum Geo a firm that provides high quality multi-client seismic data and seismic Imaging solutions to global oil and gas exploration companies. Spectrum is also understood to be planning round two of the auction to be  held in Huston, in the United States and Dubai, meaning that Mogadishu may have as good as Crossed the Rubbicon, sealing Kenya’s fate on the matter. And even as the  diplomatic tiff  plays out, Kenya  insists that the dispute which in any case is before the International Court of Justice (ICJ)  calls for arbitration to amicably resolve the matter and requires  goodwill and good neighbourliness. Other sources familiar with the issue, say  Kenya might throw caution to the wind and use the current diplomatic spat with Somalia to recognise the self-declared independent states of Somaliland, Putland and restless Jubaland region, a move that could further destabilise Mogadishu. The three states broke away from the Federal Republic of Somalia and have been seeking recognition as autonomous states. “Kenya has a number of options to apply to destabilise Somalia which again does not have a stable government,” said the source. The country has played a big role in restoring peace in Somalia and also harbours thousands of Somali refugees. Recalling its soldiers currently working with the Somali defence forces to fight the al Shabaab insurgents could hurt the Mohamed Farmajo led government. Reports indicate that Somalia may have ignored the court case at the ICJ at the Hague and gone ahead to auction the oil blocks along the disputed coastline with Kenya on February 7 during an auspicious launch event held in Central London when the Ministry of Petroleum and Mineral Resources unveiled the final block delineation, expected to consist of up to 50 blocks covering a total area of over 173,000 km2. For years, Kenya and Somalia have been involved in a dispute over where their maritime boundary in the Indian Ocean runs. But reacting to the matter, Senate Deputy Speaker Kithure Kindiki said that  Kenya was confident that it will win the case at The Hague. “The Somalia case is weak and cannot withstand the threshold, Kenya will win and the matter settled amicably,” he said. For Kenya, however, the boundary is quite clear. It lies parallel to the line of latitude. That gives Kenya the larger share of the maritime area and has already sold mining licences to international companies. Somalia has, however, disagreed and wants the boundary to extend to the southeast as an extension of the land border. In 2009, both countries agreed that the United Nations Commission in charge of mediating border disputes should determine the border line once and for all. They also agreed that they should continue to work together to find a solution so that the matter would not have to go to court. In 2014, Somalia sued Kenya at the ICJ in The Hague. The court represents one way of solving border conflicts in maritime areas if bilateral or regional attempts fail. If it goes the Somalia way, the Kenya/Somalia maritime boundary will run across Kenya waters up to Tanzania waters, making Kenya a landlocked country. Somalia is contesting  about 100,000 square kilometres that move diagonally to the South of Kiunga into the sea surpassing the current boundary that Kenya and Somalia in Indian Ocean. Kenya has recalled her ambassador to Somalia Maj-Gen (Rtd) Lucas Tumbo and ordered Somali envoy back to his country over the dispute. According to a diplomat with inner knowledge of the issue, Kenya stands to lose heavily economically if the dispute is settled in Somalia’s favour.