For the seventh year running, Nairobi Water Queens will be crowned the Kenya Handball Federation (KHF) women league champions as they played for a 31-12 win against Kenyatta University (KU) for an unassailable 30 points with a match to spare. Nairobi Water were the better side from the onset of the encounter managing a 16-7 lead in the first half before scoring 15 more goals in the second period against KU’s paltry five. Gladys Chilo and Elizabeth Kemei top score for Water with seven and five goals respectively. The Jack Ochieng-coached side has won the league unbeaten back-to-back since 2013, two years after the team was formed. The tactician believes it has taken commitment, discipline and passion to stay at the top even with several teams offering some form of competition. “We have had a good season, defended the title without losing a match so far. We play National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB) in our final match of the season which will be a formality match but we hope to keep our unbeaten run,” said Ochieng who added that training hard and the experience his players have gained over the years goes a long way in helping them dominate the local handball scene. The side has now shifted their focus to defending the Super Cup title that they have won since it was introduced. The Super Cup brings together the top six teams that are pooled in two groups. The top two teams proceed to the semi finals. Confident Ochieng’s dream is, however, to be the best in Africa and hopes that they will get a chance to feature in this year’s continental club championships and better their last placing where they finished fifth. “Our last appearance was in the 2016 edition of the Africa club championships where we finished fifth. We are hoping to get funds and return to the stage as I am confident we can the semis with proper build-up matches outside East Africa,” added Ochieng. He added, “It requires a lot of resources to expose the team and without sponsorship, it will be hard to execute our plans. At the moment we are self-sponsored and the players are sacrificing a lot to keep playing.” With a majority of the players being employees of Nairobi Water and Sewarage Company, the team still uses the company name despite not receiving any funds. “It is very unfortunate that the acting Managing Director (MD) is not keen on supporting us. For the last two seasons we have been self-sponsored and depending highly on well wisher,” the coach said.