Charles Thuku and Derek Otieno @PeopleSport11 Boxing fans are in a treat in the much anticipated Osaga Promotions Triple Title Fights slated for Charter Hall in Nairobi on Saturday. According to Osaga Promotions founder and director Caleb Kuya, the competition is geared towards giving Kenyan pugilists the rare opportunity of defending their diadems. In the main fight, sensational Kenyan female pugilist Evelyn “Lioness” Odero  will challenge Happy Daudi of Tanzania for the vacant Womens’ International Boxing Association (WIBA) Super lightweight crown. In the meantime, Gabriel Ochieng’ of Kenya will have his work cut out in the day as he slugs it out with Tasha Mjuaji of Tanzania for the vacant Universal Boxing Organization (UBO) Super bantam weight title fight. In super bantamweight, Kenya’s wonder-lady Jane Kavulani will return to the ring after a long lay-off to face Uganda’s Mercy Princess for a non-title bantam weight  contest that is scheduled for six rounds. Kuya said that his company has organised a series of competitions this year in Nairobi and Mombasa with some of the country’s top puglists pencilled to take part in the fights. “Next weekend will be beginning of an interesting year in the sport in the country. All we need at the moment is the support and if we get such a hall and support from the county government, we are sure of getting somewhere. “In March, we shall host another series in Mombasa and we are currently talking to many of the boxers to come and grace the event,” said the former Kenya international at Charter hall during the Novice Championships. Kuya urged boxing fans to turn up in large numbers and at the same time set gate charges at Sh 1,000 (VIP), Sh 500 (Ringside), Sh 300 (Regular) and Sh 100 (Children). Full programme-Main fight-WIBA Super lightweight title fight-Evelyn Odero (Kenya) VS Happy Daudi (Tanzania),  UBO Super Bantam title fight-Gabriel Ochieng’ (Kenya) vs Tasha Mjuaji (Tanzania). Under-cards-Super bantam (6rds)-Vaibhaz Singh (India) vs George Owano (Kenya),  Super lightweight (6 Rnds)-Nick Mwangi (Kenya) vs Cosmas Cheka (Tanzania), Heavyweight (6 Rnds)-Festus Botumbe (DR Congo) vs Abbas Kyobbe (Uganda), Super lightweight (6 Rnds)-Rukia Nasirite (Kenya) vs Joyce Awino (Kenya), Super bantam (6 Rnds)-Vaibhaz Singh (India) vs George Owano (Kenya), Super welter (6 Rnds), Pascal Bruno (Tanzania) vs Mikel Okemo (Uganda).