Ericson Kiprono @PeopleSport11 General Service Unit (GSU) men volleyball team are optimistic that they will perform well during the Africa men’s club championship slated for Cairo, Egypt from March 30. The paramilitary side will be one of the five clubs Kenya will be sending to Cairo for the tournament, in which the winner will secure a ticket to compete in the volleyball World Club Championships. Alongside GSU, Kenya will also have Prisons Warders for men and three other clubs in women competition – Kenya Prisons, KCB Bank and Kenya Pipeline. GSU head coach Gideon Tarus says he is ready for the onslaught to end Kenya’s poor run and emulate the women’s side which has won over 10 titles at the continental level. “GSU is ready to break the duck and win the Africa Championship. Based on our performance, we have the capacity to challenge the North African opponents. We are working on the mistakes which hindered us in the previous editions and by mid next month it will be all systems go,” said Tarus. GSU lost 3-1 at the hands of eventual winners and hosts Al Ahly of Egypt in the finals of last year’s tournament. Kenya’s other representatives Kenya Prisons were edged out by El Guish of Egypt in straight sets. The women’s African Club Championship is set to start on March 16-25, while the men’s edition will start on April 1-10. “We are optimistic to see another thrilling competition at the great Ahly club after last year’s successful editions,” said Confederation of Africa Volleyball (CAVB) President Amr Elwani. “Al-Ahly club won the bid to host the tournament in Cairo. They beat Esperance of Tunisia. Ahly is ready to host the Club World Championship,” said Elwani. The deadline for teams to send in their confirmation to CAVB will be on March 5. The sevens players refused to sign the new contracts which will see the senior players pocket Sh50,000 down from Sh140,000- Sh170,000. According to the stand off between the employer and the players, the players demand to be paid the same salaries while the union boss cannot afford to honour such a contract and will engage them once they get the money. “We are unhappy they were not able to renew contracts, but we thank them for the services. We are not closing the door to further discussions, as soon as a sponsor comes through, we can afford more money,” said Omwela. Meanwhile on the grounds of personal-undisclosed reason, on August 7 2018 former KRU CEO Ronald Bukusi handed in his resignation at the KRU offices to force the union to shift the former head of leagues and fixtures committee Sylvia Kamau to take over as his sit-in replacement. Former CEO Ronald Bukusi was one of the longest serving having returned to office on February 1 2015 to take over from Jack Okoth. Bukusi had previously stepped down from the KRU CEO position in year 2000 to pursue his MBA in Sports management in Chicago, USA having served for seven years. A statement on the appointment of Sylvia Kamau as the union CEO read, “The Kenya Rugby Union Board of Directors wishes to announce to all affiliates, sponsors and the rugby fraternity that is has confirmed Sylvia Kamau as CEO for an initial period of one year effective January 1 2019,” read the statement. The sports director at Strathmore University will still perform her role as a two-year KRU director role until March 2019 AGM