Billionaire Humphrey Kariuki’s troubles seemed to deepen after the High Court on Friday issued preservation orders restraining him from withdrawing or transferring monies held in his 11 banks accounts believed to be in excess of Sh10 billion. The multi-billionaire has been restrained from accessing the money that is proceeds from  three of his  companies. Justice John Onyiego issued orders after Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) filed an application seeking orders to preserve funds in the bank accounts under the names of Vow Beverages Limited, Wines of The World Limited and African Spirits Limited as they complete investigations over the alleged Sh3 billion tax evasion. “An order is hereby issued preserving funds and prohibiting the transfer, withdrawal or disposal of or other dealing involving the funds pending hearing and determination,” ordered the judge. KRA obtained preservation orders restraining and prohibiting the transfer of funds in the seven bank accounts including The World and African Spirits Limited (ASL)  which is one of the largest alcohol manufacturing plants in East Africa. Other companies which the court has preserved their funds are Vow Beverages Limited, Wines pending the hearing and determination of the application. The court preserved the monies  which are held at National, Family, Equity, Credit  and KCB banks. According to documents filed in court, the companies have been supplying excisable goods with counterfeit exercise stamps hence evading payments of taxes. Tax evasion The taxman said the companies have in the cause of carrying out its business fraudulently denied the agency collection of colossal amounts of taxes which they intends to demand. They claim that preliminary investigations conducted so far indicate Kariuki through the companies has evaded tax of up to Sh3 billion. KRA says they are still investigating the companies as they believe their affairs are still ongoing  and they could unearthed more information with regard to evasion of taxes by Kariuki.