Alvin Kariuki Telkom Kenya Limited and Airtel Networks Kenya Limited Friday announced the signing of a binding merger agreement. The two mobile service providers will have their respective mobile, enterprise and carrier services businesses merge in Kenya to operate under a joint venture company to be named Airtel-Telkom. Telkom’s real estate portfolio and specific government services will not form part of the combined entity. The final shareholding will be determined at the closing of the transaction. Telkom Kenya has the option of holding up to 49 per cent of the shareholding. The merged company will be chaired by Telkom chief executive Mugo Kibati while his Airtel counterpart Prasanta Sarma  will be the chief executive. The  closure of the transaction is subject to approval by the relevant authorities. Airtel and Telkom will see no immediate changes to their operations. Similarly, there will be no change to the current respective leadership and management, legal, organisational and staffing structures. Additionally, both brands— Airtel and Telkom—  and their respective products and solutions will continue to co-exist. Service delivery to the respective companies’ customers as well as engagement with all business partners of both companies will continue as usual. As per the agreement, both the partners will combine their operations in Kenya and establish an entity with enhanced scale and efficiency, larger distribution network and strategic brand presence, thereby, enhancing the range and quality of products, greater choice and convenience to the consumer. The combined entity will see sustained investments in networks to further accelerate roll-out of future technologies. The enterprise and carrier services businesses will get a boost with a larger fibre footprint and increased number of enterprise customers- including both large corporations and SMEs, who would have access to a diverse portfolio of world-class solutions. National Treasury Cabinet secretary Henry Rotich said: “This move is well aligned with the government’s agenda to optimise the value of the assets that it holds in trust, on behalf of Kenyans, while cementing the country’s position not only as a regional business hub but also as an international investment magnet.” ICT Cabinet secretary Joe Mucheru said: “ICT remains a vital link to achieving Kenya’s economic goals and our national development agenda, particularly with respect to service delivery. Such mergers have had positive impact on the development of the sector and service levels to consumers in other markets. We look forward to this merger leading to the introduction of new technologies and telecommunication products which will, in turn, support the growth of other business sectors of our economy, thereby spurring national production to meet the growing demand locally and beyond.”