An estimated 273 billion litres of tea was consumed last year and the amount is expected to reach 297 billion litres by 2021. Tea is the second most consumed drink in the world, after water. There are many types of teas, depending on their oxidation levels: green, yellow, oolong and black. Many tea auctions have sprung up around the world to satisfy the demand for the community. Here is a list of the 10 biggest tea auctions in the world according to Tea Trade Association: 1.Colombo Auction, Sri Lanka The first Tea Auction in Colombo was held on July 30, 1883 and with that modest beginning, Colombo Tea Auction (CTA) grew to be the largest tea auction in the world. Today with tea factories increasing the number of grades to meet buyer demand, the number of lots are correspondingly increasing placing a further strain on the system. Approximately 6.5 million kilogrammes are sold weekly. The green tea from Sri Lanka attracts high prices due to its superior quality. 2. Mombasa Auction, Kenya Tea auctions in Mombasa are held every Monday and Tuesday.The variety of quality and progressively increased quantities offered have made Mombasa the second largest black tea auction centre in the world. Unlike India and Sri-Lanka where tea is seasonal, production in this region is all year round. Mombasa has gained a reputation as a centre for some of the best CTC top grades in the world and an international blending floor with teas coming from within and outside Africa for blending. Quantities have grown by more than 300 per cent in the last 20 years. 3. Kolkata Auction, India In India, the first tea auction centre was set up in Calcutta (now Kolkata) in 1861. Public tea auctions handle more than 500 million kilogrammes annually. The newly designed e-Auction system is being used by all the six auction centres (Kolkata, Siliguri, Guwahati, Cochin, Coimbatore and Coonoor). The e-Auction system integrates the process starting from creation of invoices to the delivery of tea from the warehouses, enabling better control and avoiding duplication of work thus reducing time. 4. Guhawati Auction, India The tea auction centre was opened on September 25, 1970 at the fast developing city of Guwahati, the gateway to India’s North East. Assam, which supplies the auction, has the largest concentration of tea plantations in the world and the single biggest tea producing area. It accounts for nearly 55 per cent of India’s total tea production and about 80 per cent of the country’s export. The tea industry is so far the biggest industry of the state of Assam. 5. Chittagong Auction, Bangladesh This auction centre has existed for seven decades and is a huge player in the globe in tea trading. According to Bangladesh Tea Board (BTB), there are 162 tea gardens in Bangladesh. Ninety per cent are in Moulvibazar, 23 in Habiganj, 18 in Sylhet, 21 in Chittagong, one in Rangamati and nine in Panchagarh, all supplying tea to Chittagong Auction. With a total of 133 tea estates, Sylhet contributes to 90 per cent of the tea production in Bangladesh. 6.Darjeeling Tea,India Darjeeling tea is known globally for its distinctive muscatel flavour which cannot be replicated anywhere else in the world. It has been accorded with the Geographical Indication (GI) status and the first of its kind to be registered in India. Some of the flavours from this region of Assam that are a hit world over are Masala Chai and Nilgiri Tea. Marketers across the Atlantic and particularly the Americas prefer to use the term chai tea to refer to tea that is milky and spicy. 7. Limbe Auction, Malawi Limbe Tea Auction, which was established in 1970, is second most active in Africa. The Malawi market trades about 45 million kilogrammes and currently, the tea industry has a two-tier marketing system, primary and secondary with the former trading in green leaf from smallholders while the latter involves made black tea known which is eventually sold at Mombasa Tea Auction. A huge consignment of Malawi’s tea [98 per cent] is exported to European markets. 8. Djakarta, Indonesia Indonesia is currently the seventh largest tea exporter in the world, falling behind heavyweights such as Kenya and Sri Lanka. Around 27 per cent of Indonesian tea exports go to Malaysia, which is the largest buyer today, along with 14 per cent to the United States. During its first auction in 2017, 397,000 tonnes of tea leaves went up for sale, with local tea exporter company PT Trijasa Prima International buying most of it. 9. Coonor, India Green tea is a relatively newer variant of tea that is fast becoming popular, especially in the health and fitness circuit. India has a lot of these and particularly from Cochin which is driving huge demand from the Western market. The price record of 2,401 rupees is the highest price fetched by any tea in any auction in any year in any centre anywhere in South India at Sale No: 15 of Coonoor Tea Trade Association auctions. 10. Shizouka,Japan Organic tea is a growing preference in Japan and it occupies at least 45 per cent of the overall tea produced in Japan. Last year, the Shizuoka Prefecture decided to promote its tea in Europe and farmers were awarded an Official Organic Tea Recognition licence in Germany for two kinds of organic tea; Yabukita which is cultivated from grafts and Zairai which is grown from the seeds.