Amos Abuga @PeopleSport11 Kenya’s Muay Thai champion and local hero, Robert ‘Man Chui’ Nabertson says the country stands to gain a lot after the Ministry of Sports entered into partnership with their Thailand counterparts to support the sport in the country. Muay Thai, a mixed martial art fighting sport is a growing event in the country with fanatics emerging by the day. “The exchange exercise will most definitely help so many Kenyans wishing to venture into the sport. The good gesture was seconded by a 10-man delegation from Thailand who visited the country last week with the aim of further growing the sport,” said Nabertson. “During the workshop, Thai and Kenyan Muay participants learned from each other, their best athletes helped mentor our upcoming boxers,” added Nabertson. The one-day workshop was attended by among others Cherdkiat Atthakor, the Ambassador of the Kingdom of Thailand to Kenya. The ambassador says a group of Kenyans will be flying to Thailand in April as part of the talks with Sports Principal Secretary Ambassador Kirimi Kaberia. “Muay Thai, is a martial art form of sport that found its roots in Thailand and has steadily been gaining traction across the globe, our desire is to see the Sport become big in Kenya and Africa at large,” stated the Ambassador. “For your information, the sport is referred to as the “Art of Eight Limbs” because it makes use of punches, kicks, elbow and knee strikes, thus using eight points of contract as opposed to two points fists, in boxing and four points  (hands and feet) used in other more regulated  combat sports example kick boxing,” decoded  the Ambassador who has been in the country for the last one and half years. As for James Kamau, the Kenya Muay Thai Federation (KMTF) chairman, a lot is lined up in terms of tournaments to help create awareness of the tournament. “Besides the local and regional tournaments coming up from, we have, major tournaments in Thailand in April and another one is USA in July, this are events we are looking for to motivate our athletes, “noted Kamau whose target is to have Kenya represented at the 2014 Olympics in Paris, France.