Ken Kenyatta will be expecting positive a response when his inconsistent Ushuru side meets Coast Stima in the National Super League at Ruaraka Grounds Saturday. The taxmen are second on the log with 31 points after dropping crucial points for the third consecutive time midweek against St Joseph’s Youth. Out of a possible nine points, Ushuru have only managed two points which is not sitting well with coach Kenyatta who has demanded more effort from his charges. The team could only manage a goalless return away to the Saints at Afraha Stadium and is therefore expected to ring the changes to bag full results. “We must begin to be serious contenders. In football, consistency is very important and even though this championship is difficult, we owe it to our experience to thrive,” he said. Dropping points is not very pleasing especially if you have an opportunity to do something proper,” he said ahead of the duel even as he seeks to tie with leaders Wazito who play 24 hours later away to fast improving Thika United. Another enticing fixture this afternoon will see seventh placed Kenya Police meet bogey side Bogey United. The dark horses battle has all the hallmarks of a thriller given that their respective coaches fancy attacking football. Anthony Akhulia and Charles Omondi for Police and Bidco respectively pushed their sides to the top half last season with a couple of good results.  The latter may be only 11th on the log with 18 points but Akhulia is expecting a good game at his backyard nonetheless to improve his current position. Newcomers Eldoret Youth and Fortune Sacco meet for the very first time after getting promoted from the FKF Division 1 last year. The pair which is doing considerably well face off at Eldoret Show Grounds with both expecting to go for full results. Eighth-placed Fortune Sacco is enjoying a good run in the Championship particularly after beating former Premiership side Shabana FC 2-1 in a midweek clash. On the other end, the hosts are 14th on the log following their recent 2-0 loss against Kenya Police at Karuturi Grounds.