Bernard Gitau @benagitau In a script  straight out of the Wild West era — a period of cowboys, gunslingers, and saloon madames — a senior Kenyan strode into a guns surrender venue with at least 30 deadly firearms, including 18 high calibre assault rifles. Interior Cabinet secretary Dr Fred Matiang’i and other senior State security officers stared in disbelief with their mouths agape as the prominent personality, whose name they declined to divulge, unpacked and displayed his collection — 10 shotguns, 18 assault rifles and a handful of pistols and revolvers. After the surrender ritual of the guns to the Firearms Licensing Board officials, a shocked CS could express alarm at the high number of specialised  high-calibre firearms in the hands of civilians. Board chair Charles Mukindia later displayed  the cache of the high calibre  firearms and rounds of ammunition from  the individual to the press. “I want to caution some people holding semi-automatic and machine guns which under the law are supposed to be held by Kenya Defense Forces among other specialised forces,” said Matiang’i. He said lack of following the law in issuing the licenses allowed “ such proliferation of speacilised firearms in private hands. An official from the licensing board revealed that the dealer returned the firearms after the clients expressed concern that they were not registered or allowed to be in the hands of civilians. He was speaking during an inspection tour of the firearms vetting exercise at Police Pavilion in South C warned that only security forces should handle specialised firearms. Matiang’i said a total of 3,500 firearm holders have been vetted and the board has confiscated more than 300 firearms and 5,000 round of ammunition with fake licenses. “This is not a gun land we will not allow people to run all manners of businesses even dealers who are selling and distributing firearms must be licensed by the board,” the CS said. Matiang’i accused some people of using guns as toys to show off  and express their machismo like it happened during referring to the  January 15 DusitD2 terror attack in 14 Riverside Drive in Nairobi. At the time, City politician Steve Mbogo was among those summoned by police after he appeared at the DusitD2 Hotel complex in a bullet-proof vest armed with a semi-automatic rifle.