Amos Abuga @PeopleSport11 Golfer Leon Wathome, eyes a gold medal for Kenya during next month’s Special Olympics World Summer Games to be held in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates from March 14-21, 2019. The 19-year-old from Kenya Community Centre for Learning (KCCL) in Roysambu Constituency is motivated by the country’s performance from 2015 at the Los Angeles, USA Special Olympics where Kenya hauled won 26 gold, two silver and 12 bronze medals in what to date remains Kenya’s best outing. Wathome, without hiding his emotions, Wathome says it is indeed a great honour that golf will be debuting at the games but more so a big privilege for him to represent the country at the games. “Going by the trend, we have been told Kenya’s performance from Los Angeles in 2015 was better from that of Athens Greece in 2011, our desire is to conquer that this year,” said Leon who will play alongside Paramveer Singh Sehmi of Oshwal Academy in the unified category. At the summer games, a multi-sport event for athletes with intellectual disabilities in the tradition of the Special Olympics movement, Leon says he wants to see more young golfers at the game. “I have several of my colleagues who I could have loved to go with to Abu Dhabi, it is unfortunate that there is only one vacancy for golf, but I want to be an inspiration to the rest of the school and golfing fraternity,” added Leon was flanked by his mother Eva. KCCL’s principal Esther Wamai is upbeat Leon will do well during the Games while terming him as one of the best students at the school. ‘Leon has been at the school for the last nine years, he keeps motivating other students to do better not only in sports but other events at the school, we are so proud to have him at the school,” Wamai noted. “We hope is inclusion, which is squarely on merit will be a motivation to the school at large,” she said. Special Olympics is the world’s largest sports organisation for children and adults with intellectual disabilities, providing training and competitions for Sh5 million and Unified States Sports partners in 172 countries.