Martin Mwita @MwitaMartin Kenya Bureau of Standards (Kebs) has pulled three more peanut butter varieties off the shelves barely a week after the Government Chemist raised alarm over excess level of aflatoxin in Nuteez Peanut Butter. The standards body yesterday said two brands produced by Triclover (Clovers Nuts Smooth and Cloves Nuts Cholcolate) and Mother Nature’s had exceed permitted levels of aflatoxin. Although Kebs has suspended standardisation mark permits for the three products, questions abound over products with excess limits of aflatoxin on the retail shelves. The bureau has also suspended the permit for Nuteez Peanut Butter, a product of Jetlak Foods Ltd , after last week’s revelation by the Government Chemist that the product has higher aflatoxins. According to the Kenyan Standards, KS EAS 60:2013, Peanut Butter – Specification states that the maximum aflatoxin content is 15 parts per billion (ppb). A certificate of laboratory analysis revealed Nuteez had levels of 24.08 ppb. Clovers Nuts Smooth 36.44 ppb, Cloves Nuts Cholcolate (44.25 ppb) and Mother Nature’s (27.26 ppb). Kebs yesterday said Jetlak Foods Ltd was issued with a permit for use of the standardisation mark on October 11, 2018 as it had complied with statutory standards. The red flag raised by the Government Chemist last week, however, sent Kebs back to the firm’s factories. “Kebs has undertaken inspection of Jetlak Foods Ltd factory and as a cautionary measure, seized all the peanut butter at the premises. Tests undertaken on the samples have confirmed that the level of aflatoxin is 25:13 parts per billion which is higher than the maximum limit allowed, ” acting managing director Bernard Nguyo said in a statement. Maximum limit “Other peanut butter brands by Triclover and Mother Nature were tested and noted to have exceeded the maximum limit for aflatoxins and have had their permits suspended,” Nguyo added. The latest development now raises questions over the safety of consumers and how many brands are contaminated. Consumer Federation of Kenya has poked holes on the government’s market surveillance effectiveness. “This raises integrity questions in government institutions on how market surveillance is conducted. These products have been in the market bearing quality mark stickers,” Secretary General Stephen Mutoro told People Daily. He expressed concerns that millions of Kenyans are already exposed to aflotoxins, putting their health at risk. Persons familiar with peanut products have however hinted the problem could go way back to farming and storage of the raw material before delivery to factories, putting peanut growers on the spot. The Kenya Association of Manufacturers (KAM) yesterday stood firm on standards set for manufacturers in the country. Though it did not defend or condemn the companies behind the flagged products, the association said it regularly sensitises all its members on the existing regulations and rules under which they ought to produce, manufacture and operate. “This is done through seminars, workshops and trainings to ensure that members are aware of the required procedures and regulations as stipulated within the law,” CEO Phyllis Wakiaga said.