Lagos, Sunday Foreign election observers have appealed for calm following the last-minute postponement of the Nigerian election by a week. “We call on all Nigerians to remain calm and support the electoral process”, said a statement from EU, UN and African Union representatives. President Muhammadu Buhari and his main rival Atiku Abubakar condemned the election delay. The presidential and parliamentary polls will now be held on 23 February. Election officials cited “logistical” reasons for the 11th hour postponement. In a press conference on Saturday, the chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Mahmood Yakubu, said the decision to delay had “nothing to do with political influence”. The foreign observers urged Inec to adhere to its new election date and provide regular updates to the public. The two main groups, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), both condemned the move and accused each other of trying to manipulate the vote. Buhari, of the APC party, urged Nigerians to “refrain from civil disorder and remain peaceful, patriotic and united to ensure that no force or conspiracy derail our democratic development”. His main rival, Abubakar, called for calm, saying: “I’m appealing to Nigerians to please come out and vote and I’m asking them to be patient about it.” In a tweet he said the administration was trying to disenfranchise the electorate. Cling on to power The chairman of the PDP, Uche Secondu, said the delay was “dangerous to our democracy”, accusing Buhari of trying to “cling on to power even when it’s obvious to him that Nigerians want him out”. In many cases voters reacted with disappointment, frustration and anger. In the northern town of Daura, Musa Abubakar, who had travelled 550km from Abuja to take part in the election, said he “couldn’t believe” what had happened. Hajiya Sa’adatu said she was “greatly disappointed” to learn of the delay when she came out to cast her vote in the northern city of Kano. “We spent all night without sleeping hoping to vote today,” Auwolu Usman, a voter in Maiduguri, told journalists. Oyi Adamezie, in the city of Warri said: “I see this postponement of the election as a ploy to rig.” Election officials bore the brunt of the anger. The electoral chief, Yakubu, said: “Our decision was entirely taken by the commission. It has nothing to do with security, nothing to do with political influence.” -BBC