After ending Mathare United’s unbeaten run in the SportPesa Premier League (SPL), Mount Kenya United will be hoping to continue their giant-killing antics when they face troubled AFC Leopards in a midweek match at Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos today. Mount Kenya United, formerly Nakumatt, did the unthinkable last weekend when they beat league leaders Mathare 2-1 to end the latter’s fairy tale run in the league and will be out to prove that the success was not by chance. The basement club will be out to tactically outmanouvre their opponents who have been going through a rough patch to the extent of their 25-year-old trainer Marko Vasiljevic quitting to be replaced by Rwandan Andre Casa Mbungo. Touted as one of the most experienced indigenous tacticians in Africa, Mbungo will be out to help appease disenchanted Ingwe fans who have endured the heartache of a string of losses by the team, the latest of which is a 4-1 hiding by Bandari in Mombasa last weekend. That has left them in 15th position on the 18-team league with 10 points from as many matches just four ahead of bottom-placed Mt Kenya who can move to within a point of them with victory today. Mt Kenya can get solace from the fact that Ingwe have struggled against the so-called lesser teams in the league this season, losing to Zoo FC, KCB  and Kakamega Homeboyz while managing draws against Vihiga United and Nzoia Sugar. Today’s match will give Mbungo an indication of the size of rebuilding work he has on his hands if he has to take Leopards to where they should be and he can do himself a favour by winning quickly since as history has shown, the club has little patience with coaches. Mbungo is their 27th coaching appointment in the last decade and the third one this season even though the 2018/19 campaign is just reaching its half-way mark. Meanwhile in Kisumu, Zoo FC face a tricky match against Western Stima who have been going through a rough spell after starting the season brightly. Stima started the season with four straight wins, putting them joint top of the table but just one win, three draws and a loss in the last five has seen them drop to seventh on the standings with 16 points, eight behind leaders Mathare.