London, Sunday @PeopleSports11 It took considerably longer for most observers to comprehend the Manchester City team sheet than it did for Arsenal to suffer their first defensive implosion at the Etihad. That said it all for Unai Emery, a meticulous and thoughtful head coach who continues to be undermined by the sheer ineptitude of his defence. All that work on the training pitches last week, which even included a double session on Friday to prepare for this trip to Manchester, went to waste within 46 seconds as Alex Iwobi helped to serve up one of the more straightforward goals that Sergio Aguero (pictured)will score this season. There was a sense of disbelief at the nature of the opener, but the fact that Arsenal were trailing was hardly a surprise. They had lost their last four meetings with City in all competitions, conceding 11 goals and scoring only once, and they have famously not won away to a ‘Big Six’ side for more than four years. Normal service resumed, then. Sead Kolasinac had an effort on target, Torreira’s shot was blocked and Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang was darting in behind with menace. An outrageous nutmeg from Aubameyang on Fernandinho was a sign of both Arsenal’s growing confidence and the increasing belief in their ability to damage City. Manchester United beat Leicester City 1-0 at the King Power Stadium to go fifth in the Premier League. Marcus Rashford gave the visitors a deserved lead after just nine minutes. Having earlier missed the target with a free header from close range, the striker made amends when he fired low past Kasper Schmeichel after being picked out by Paul Pogba with a delightful ball over the top. David De Gea was on hand to keep out Jamie Vardy’s acrobatic second-half volley and Rachid Ghezzal’s free-kick as Leicester improved, but the Red Devils’ lead was not significantly threatened by the hosts. United remain unbeaten under interim boss Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, who has overseen nine wins in his 10 games in charge.  – AGENCIES