Morris Aron Statistics on mobile money transactions in the country would make any traditional banker make that quick dash for the bathroom. Everywhere one turns, whether it is the Communications Authority of Kenya (CA) or Central Bank (CBK), one is bombarded by figures showing a trend of remarkable growth—and preference—for mobile money-based transactions. How bankers react to this developing disruption will define whether traditional banking practices survive or are overtaken by events. The scenario looks like a shape up or ship out. The most recent statistics from CA show that for the first time, mobile money transactions hit the Sh2 trillion mark. For instance, for the period between July and September 2018, CA says that 730.2 million transactions valued at Sh2.027 trillion were recorded. Quarter on quarter, the number of mobile transactions jumped 20 per cent. Compare that growth to the following traditional bank transactions—even with the slight time gap. According to the latest CBK statistics, Kenya Electronic Payments and Settlement System (KEPSS) used for large value Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) payments moved a volume of 1.06 million transactions “messages” worth Sh6.8 trillion in the first quarter of 2018, compared to 1.17 million transactions ‘messages’ worth Sh7.6 trillion recorded in the fourth quarter of 2017. In both instances, the volumes and values decreased by 10 per cent and 6.87 per cent, respectively. Bank customer payments are processed through KEPSS. When transmitting payments through the RTGS for customers, commercial banks submit the payment instructions via multiple third party “messages” for several credit transfers and single third party “messages” for single credit transfers. During the period under review, such transactions remained flat for several credit transfers and a marginal growth of four per cent for single credit transfers. What are these figures telling us? The figures are saying that while the bulk of transactions is still and will always be supported by banks, for regular bank-to-customer or customer- to-customer transactions are rapidly shifting to mobile money at a rate of 20 per cent per quarter. Basically, there is preference and demand for mobile money-based services and solutions. And why not? Mobile money transactions are very convenient—and hip, especially given the fact that a majority of the population are quite young. Mobile money is easy to use, faster, cheaper and safer provided that correct procedures are followed. But perhaps one of the biggest advantages of mobile money lies in its ability to actualise financial inclusion. With a mobile handset alone, millions of Kenyans who would otherwise not access banking services are now in a position to do so having been brought into the formal banking system. With transacting with mobile money becoming new normal, traditional banking models worst fear is also being actualised. It is time for banks to figure out how to mainstream mobile banking solutions. Banks that are yet to come up with mobile money-based solutions are witnessing customer exodus in favour of those with such solutions. The mobile handset has replaced the banking hall. The writer is an economic researcher.aronmaurice3@gmail.com