Virtually all the students—651, 189 out of 660,204— who sat last year’s Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) examination will be placed in universities, tertiary colleges and technical and vocational training institutes. Yesterday, Education Cabinet secretary Amina Mohamed while launching the placement exercise, said of the qualified candidates; 90,744 who attained a mean grade of C+ (plus) and above, will be  admitted  to local universities, both public and private for various degree courses. “I wish to announce that all the candidates who scored C+ (plus) and above in the 2018 KCSE examination will be selected for admission to degree courses in both public and private universities,” she said. At the same time, she dispelled claims that Kenya Universities and Colleges Central Placement Service  (KUCCPS) plans  to exclude the C+ (plus) category in 2018 KCSE exam from automatic qualification to degree courses. There are 23 public universities, 14 chartered private and 13 with Letter of Interim Authority (LIA). Further, 121,288 who scored between C- (minus) and C plain in the KCSE are all eligible for placement in diploma courses in tertiary colleges and Technical and Vocational Education and Training Institutes (Tvet) under the government sponsorship programme. The CS said 244,436, who scored D and D+ in the exam are eligible for placement in Craft Certificate Courses in Tvet institutions. “To guarantee that we will not drop off any candidate who sat the 2018 KCSE exam, all 194,721 who scored between E and D– (minus) in the examination are eligible for selection to artisan courses in the existing 800 Vocational Education and Training (VETs) institutions,” said Amina. Hasten selection To hasten the selection and placement process, the CS said she had directed the KUCCPS to open its online application system for the exercise, which will go on until February 23. She also announced  that the government has enhanced financing for higher education saying the Higher Education Loans Board (Helb) has in the current financial year spent Sh13.5 billion on learners. The CS said currently, Helb is funding students in 74 universities and 130 Tvets, adding that the government was looking for resources for enhanced enrolment into technical institutions across the country. She urged more KCSE graduates to apply for admission to approved Education ministry Tvets, adding that her ministry is determined to enhance enrolment into Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) courses to build capacity for the delivery of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four Agenda—housing, security, affordable healthcare and manufacturing. Amina said the Tvet courses are critical because they will produce competencies critical the Big Four agenda and Vision 2030 “to transform our country into ‘a newly industrialised, middle-income economy”. In line with the government’s objective to expand access to higher education, Amina said the ministry has instituted a well-organised and meticulous system of selection and admission of students to the higher learning institutions. Complete application “Specifically, the ministry has endeavoured to start the process of placing KCSE exam candidates to various universities and colleges early enough to reduce the period that the transitioning learners stay at home before joining tertiary institutions,” said the CS. She asked candidates who did not complete the application process in school to use this opportunity to apply. After the revision, she said, the placement service will process the applications on merit, taking into account the students’ performance in the KCSE examination, choices, available capacity and affirmative action for gender, persons with disabilities and candidates from marginalised regions. The process will culminate in the final selection of students for admission to universities and Tvet institutions, which will be concluded by April 12. Selection to universities will, however, cater only for the 2018 KCSE candidates while placement to Tvet institutions will take care of other previous years up to the year 2000. To ensure candidates join courses and institutions of their choice, a one-month window will be provided in May, 2019 for the selected students to apply for inter-institutional transfers. To support the exercise, Amina said the placement service will send officers to various institutions in counties across the country, between February 11 and 17 to assist candidates in making their applications.