Barry Ochieng @PeopleSports11 Before the league started, Dennis Ochieng was not known beyond the Lake Region where he has played in his football so far, but he is currently the talk of all defenders and coaches in the National Super League (NSL). With 10 goals in his name, Kisumu All Stars’ striker Ochieng is a nightmare to all  his opponents and with Kenya Police being their next opponents today, all eyes will be on him. The lakeside outfit that are fifth on the log have amassed 30 points and will be plotting a coup against the law enforcers after their recent 4-1 demolition of Modern Coast Rangers at the weekend. According to his coach Francis Oduor, himself a former top league player with some top teams in the country during his days as a player, the lad has grown in confidence and is enjoying his football. “Dennis will go far because of his lethal nature in front of goal. His composure and confidence has developed overtime and it is hugely because of him that we are in a strong place to challenge for honours,” Oduor said. This fixture therefore sees two strong sides that have good flair and skill upfront with the ninth placed hosts Police likely to parade the attack force of Martin Mutua, David Oluoch and Abraham Dawo. However, their defence which has leaked 23 goals must be wary of the unpredictable Allstars who also have Shadrack Omondi waiting in the wings to do damage at the Karuturi Grounds fortress. Stuttering Ushuru, who have yet to pick a win in four matches face a banana skin in the frame of Nairobi City Stars today at Camp Toyoyo. The taxmen who are second in the log with 32 points will be desperate to win in a bid to cut the gap at the top which incidentally they occupied only a fortnight ago. A run of three consecutive draws has put brakes in their campaign. Ushuru head coach Ken Kenyatta however believes the inconsistent run is a wake-up call to his charges to fight on. “The players must just believe in what they do so that we catch pace again. It is difficult to lose points and recover because the competition is getting tighter. However this Championship is still open until the end so we must give ourselves a chance,” he said. Meanwhile high fliers Wazito, who have a five point advantage at the top of the standings, face ambitious Administration Police two hours later at the same venue in a bid to stake control. AP are currently fifth on 23 points and have only lost twice this season against their five wins. The immediate former Premiership side are just off two crucial back to back wins against Bidco United and Thika United which have put them in prime position to call the shots.