National basketball men’s team Morans leave the country today by bus to Rwanda where they are expected to play two friendly matches as the squad starts early preparations for the All Africa Games qualifiers set for June. The cash-strapped basketball federation had to bear with the consequences of sending the team by road. A contingent of 12 home-based players will be accompanied by coach Cliff Owuor and assistant Carey Odhiambo in the invitational friendly while Maxine Milimu, a KBF official who is coordinating the event, acts as manager. According to Milimu, 26 local players had been called up to the team in January with 15 honouring the call-ups.  “The three were not consistent in training due to personal commitments and thus the 12 travelling to Rwanda,” she said. The team has been in non-residential training for close to two weeks and played a friendly match on Friday evening against a Nairobi select side winning 62-44. The friendly has come to fruition courtesy of Kenyan international Demond Owili who plies his trade in Australia, for Kylsith Cobras in the Australian top league. The journey, however, started in October last year when Owili single handedly sponsored an All-Star festival that saw local based men players take on their foreign-based counterparts while the women’s match had the players divided into two conferences, Eastern and Western. Two home friendly matches against Cameroon, who were preparing for the last phase of the 2019 World Championships Africa qualifier, and Uganda in November, followed up the festival. “I am trying my best to achieve something with the national teams, starting with the qualifiers in June. I believe good preparations lead to progress. I am in Australia and the federation is handling the team in Nairobi so I am helping where I can,” said Owili when reached for comment on his plans for the teams. He added, “Together we can achieve something. I believe the status of Kenyan basketball can rise if we have the proper mindset and that is what we are working towards.”  The team is also set to play Uganda, in Kampala in April. The country is ranked in position 130 in the latest FIBA rankings, having dipped three positions from the last ranking. Uganda and Rwanda are in positions 96 and 84 respectively, having also dipped four and five positions as well. Egypt is the best ranked country from the FIBA Zone V at position 52. The team is gelling well so far and I am pleased,” he told People Sports on phone. Meanwhile up and coming Fortune Sacco from Kirinyaga County had their Coach sent off to the stands but still beat St. Joseph’s Youth 2-1 to move to ninth on 10 points while struggling Nairobi City Stars held Kenya Police to a 1-1 draw at Hope Center.