First Lady Margaret Kenyatta is putting in long hours to get in shape for the fourth edition of the of ‘Beyond Zero’ Half Marathon set for March 10 at the Nyayo National Stadium. Through her coach, veteran athlete Douglas Wakihuri Mrs Kenyatta is following the training routine of any elite athlete in preparing for the event that has been on a two-year hiatus since the 2016 edition. “It is the same routine as that of an elite athlete, only less intense. She starts at 6:30 am with a warm-up session and then proceeds for either a 10km run or walk depending on the schedule for the day,” said Wakihuri who also revealed that the First Lady also has strength and conditioning sessions. The morning session is followed by breakfast after which she has a therapy session to take care of muscle wear and tear associated with running. “It takes discipline and a strictly adhered to routine to be able to run in any race. Our routine also includes training for speed and endurance,” said Wakiihuri. The marathons are aimed at creating awareness and drawing the attention of stakeholders to the challenges of maternal and infant health in Kenya besides raising resources to increase access to healthcare for mothers and their babies. The marathon is one of the key resource mobilisation events for Beyond Zero, a flagship programme aimed at saving the lives of mothers and children by avoiding preventable maternal and infant deaths.  The previous editions have enabled the First Lady to issue mobile clinics to all 47 counties in the country. Her initiative also aims at accelerating the implementation of the national plan towards the elimination of new HIV infections among children. Over 10,000 people from two counties have received services to help eliminate ‘Mother-to-child infections’ and more counties are expected to benefit from the initiative. This year’sedition will have an increased number of events from the traditional three categories. A special 2km walk for pregnant women has been introduced to raise awareness on maternal health. The 21km wheel-chair and tri-cycle races as well as three categories of the visually impaired have been introduced. “This year’s edition will feature the usual 21km, 10km and 5km as well as Paralympics and the special walk. For the first time in any of the road races in the country, we shall have T11, T12 and T13 categories of the visually impaired participating in the 21km race,” said event manager Peter Gacheru.