Sofapaka warned up for this weekend’s heavyweight clash with Gor Mahia by making their biggest statement yet when they thrashed leaders Mathare United 4-1 in a SportPesa Premier League match at Kasarani Stadium yesterday. In what was their fifth straight league victory, Sofapaka defensive midfielder Elly Asieche scored one of the fastest goals of the season in the second minute sfollowing a goalmouth confusion by Mathare defenders. Asieche, who was withdrawn in the second half after a head injury, dummied his way through unsuspecting Mathare defenders and then pulled the trigger from 10 yards out that beat goalkeeper Allan Owiny all the way. In the 37th minute, a goal-bound Sofapaka forward John Avire was brought down outside the box which prompted referee Israel Mpaima to award a free-kick which Titus Achesa slotted in. Sofapaka went further ahead in the 43rd minute when Owiny spilled the ball which fell in the path of Umaru Kasumba to net third goal. Kevin Kimani reduced the arrears for Mathare from a point blank range in the 58th minute before Kasumba completed his brace in the 90th minute, his power-packed shot hitting the post before trickling into the net. “This is a good motivation for the Gor match. We now go into that match at the weekend in the right frame of mind,” said an elated Sofapaka coach John Baraza. Mathare have now gone four matches without a win and while they are still leading the standings with 25 points, their rivals have closed in, Sofapaka now sitting third on the log just two points adrift. In Mombasa, hosts Bandari stayed in touch with the leaders after a 2-0 victory over Vihiga United saw them amass 25 points, same as Mathare and still with a game in hand over the slum boys. The two goals were scored by David King’atua (free-kick in the 20th minute) and Yema Mwana (76th minute). Defeat sees Vihiga, who have failed to win their last six matches, slip to 16th on the 18-team table with 10 points from 13 matches. In Kakamega, 10-man Kariobangi Sharks struck early to sink battling Kakamega Homeboyz 1-0 in an entertaining clash at Bukhungu Stadium. Sharks, who are among the title contenders, started that match on the front foot with coach William Muluya opting for Erick Kapaito, Sidney Lokale and Shapan Oyugi upfront. It was no surprise when Lokale teed up an unmarked Oyugi in the fourth minute to score the only goal of the contest. Reports by Charles Thuku, Fred Likuyani and Harrison Kivisu