John Baraza tasted his first defeat since replacing American Melis Medo as Sofapaka head coach when defending champions Gor Mahia beat his gallant charges 1-0 at Afraha Stadium, Nakuru yesterday. Baraza had masterminded four consecutive victories for Batoto Ba Mungu against Zoo FC, Kariobangi Sharks, Nzoia Sugar and Mathare United. That impressive run, however, came to screeching halt as Samuel Onyango netted the sole goal at his former stomping ground to send K’Ogalo within three points of leaders Bandari. Onyango who was making his first start since a lengthy injury-forced hiatus, showed great agility as he latched onto Philemon Otieno’s clearance near the centre circle. He threaded the ball to Jacques Tuyisenge on the right wing and continued his run into the box. The former Ulinzi Stars man then cleverly read the Rwandese tee, tamed the ball as he eased past Faina Jacobs in Sofapaka’s 18 yard area before unleashing a fierce low shot that beat Ndikumana in the far post. The contest had been grippingly tight until then as both teams displayed ball skills and attacking intent. Umaru Kasumba perhaps had the best chance of four attacking players fielded by Baraza for Sofapaka. The lanky Ugandan tamed a difficult pass from John Avire in the 17th minute then expertly turned to leave his minder Haron Shakava blinded before unleashing a rasping shot that unfortunately missed the target from just inside the box. Playing alongside Pistone Mutamba upfront with Avire and Elly Asieche providing backup, Sofapaka went with Gor Mahia toe-to-toe for every ball but were unable to breach K’Ogalo. It was almost like de javu when Onyango scored in the 24th minute, seven minutes after Kasumba missed the massive opportunity on the other end. In Machakos, AFC Leopards’ struggles continued as they lost yet again, a 1-0 reverse to Ulinzi Stars which leaves them second from bottom with 10 points, just one ahead of basement side Mt Kenya United. The match was, however, stopped briefly after incidents of crowd trouble as a section of fans attacked a match official. In the early kick-off at the same venue, Robert Achema scored very early for Sony Sugar as the visiting Migori County outfit claimed all three points at the expense of KCB.  In Kisumu, promoted Western Stima struck in each half to down bottom placed Mt Kenya United 2-1.