Sandra Kimokoti, 26, has always been sporty, and had to surmount exigent ideologies about body image and femininity, eventually making it to the women’s national rugby team. She spoke to GRACE WACHIRA “…From (about age) 10, I carried with me that as a girl, it was okay to be athletic, but I couldn’t be too athletic, because at the end of the day, what I looked like took precedence over anything else,” a minute into her podcast narration hosted by The Moth, Sandra Kimokoti shares. This was after beginning to experience teasing about how boyish she looked, which happened a couple of times throughout her school years. This is what triggered a near lifetime internal conflict about body image and femininity. The only girl in a family of six siblings, she not only got socialised, but physically drifted into boy’s tough stuff; playing sports and many other things that boys do. She began being involved in sports at a young age. She ran 100, 200 and 800m, then started playing basketball. Even though at the back of her mind there was the nagging feeling that she would never be able to shake off the perception that she “wasn’t feminine enough, and therefore not beautiful enough”, she carried on with sports, which was already ingrained in her, and was something she enjoyed. Encountering Sandra’s podcast leaves one stirred, with a story quite relatable to many, who find themselves conflicted over what they can and what they want to do. After a week of correspondence, we finally meet the person behind the rousing voice. Taking one look at her, you could assume she has never set foot in a rugby pitch. Sandra has lost her rugby girth since retiring and is now petite, conquering the corporate world. We are apologetic for being 10 minutes late for our sit-down with the budding advisory consultant at Dalberg. Amidst a warm welcome, she offers us some water, a refreshing gesture, seeing as we are in the thick of January heat. She closes her laptop and sets her coffee mug dotted with some positive and vibrant inscriptions that I could not quite make out. Only girl “I happen to be the only girl in my family. I have five brothers and I am the fifth-born. We were brought up in Runda, and together with my siblings, we indulged in basketball and over the holidays, travelled to Kitale,” she says. Sandra went on to join Alliance Girls High School after completing her primary education at Makini School. She recounts one of the couple of times the issue about her defined body came up, which would mess with her psychology. “I remember when I was joining high school. I had fairly great hair, but it was permed, which wasn’t allowed, so I had to cut it. After leaving the salon with my hair cut, I passed two men and overheard them ask each other behind my back if I was a boy or a girl. It did not help that I was a late bloomer. I remember feeling not so great about it, but I brushed it off. My family was supportive, which helped me cope,” she recalls. In September 2009, she transferred to African Leadership Academy in Johannesburg, South Africa before she could complete school at Alliance. While there, she played basketball and was good at it. “Thanks to my athletic body, I was good at the game,” she says. Her family was largely invested in sports. Her dad had a black belt in karate from back in the day and her mother was a sprinter. “So, it came naturally to us to be athletic. I remember my brothers being great swimmers and giving me a run for my money when we were in the basketball court,” adds Sandra. She recalls that while in Jo’berg, they had a few projects in school and she enjoyed lending a hand to the community around her. She worked on improving agricultural productivity in the community. “It was a venture I genuinely enjoyed, and looking back, I think I have always loved giving back,” says the athlete. After completing school in South Africa, she joined Brown University in the United States to pursue a degree in Biochemistry. “You could say I was a bright child,” she laughs after I point out that she must be really smart. “It was in May 2011 when I enrolled in Brown, and I wanted to join the basketball team,” she recounts. There were two basketball teams, the varsity team and the intramural one, which was more relaxed, and since she was not looking to play competitively, this was the team she initially gravitated towards. “I wanted to adjust to a new country and just keep fit. The B team was a bit more relaxed and I wanted structure. Then I saw the try-out calls for rugby auditions and I entered, and joined the team,” explains Sandra. She instantly fell in love with the sport, and liked that rugby had a lot of training and one could join regardless of what sport they played before. “I was advantaged because I had strength, something that is key when playing rugby, and when I went for the try-outs, I got picked. I was proud of myself because I was a freshman, yet I had made it to the team,” she says. Self-sabotage But, when they went on summer break, Sandra decided to go for the leaner look she always desired. “I went on a more portion-controlled diet, reduced the weightlifting and did a lot more cardio than I was supposed to do for my position,” she explains. She had a guide from her coach that was meant to help her for the sport, but she went on and lost weight from 84 to 73kg. “I already had issues with having a lot of muscle, and I wanted to feel more feminine,” she admits. “The more I played rugby the happier I was with what my body could do, but the more frustrated I became with what my body looked like. And it was like this internal conflict where I want these two things really badly, but I can’t have one without compromising the other… I played this game where, I did just enough to be good enough for my position, but always toning down the weight gain and the muscle gain,” she had revealed in The Moth’s podcast. In what she termed self-sabotage, Sandra saw the clash between the two realities cause her to stand in the way of her own greatness in the sport. When she was in third year, Sandra interned at Dalberg Nairobi, before the development advisory organisation offered her a position. “In my third year, I had the opportunity to intern and also, I had applied for a grant to coach rugby from a Sport for Society programme. It would combine training high school girls in rugby and sessions on the reproductive system. I got the grant and I had three months to do either. So, I took a semester off and spent the summer training the girls and later, took up my internship. I was 22 years then,” the athlete explains. She describes the experience helping the girls deal with a lot of social challenges they were experiencing satisfying. “It was fulfilling to collaborate with the school and bring some change in Kitale,” she adds. Her inclination towards working with the girls was due to the huge male-domination in the sport. “By and large, I’m really trying to promote access to equal opportunities, whether it is in terms of financial support or even recognition as a player,” she adds. National team Upon completion of her university studies in 2014, Sandra came back home and got an opportunity to join the women’s national rugby team. “At the end of my third year, I come back home and I get this opportunity somehow to train with the women’s national team in Kenya. And I think; this might be the door to that career and professional rugby that I’ve been waiting for… and at that point I know that something has to change and I know the self-sabotage has to stop. And deep down, I always knew that the body that I needed to perform optimally as an athlete might not be the body that society thinks is ideal for a woman. But in that moment, I was finally ready to just go out there and be the best rugby player that my body would allow me to be,” she had concluded the narration on The Moth, a US-based platform launched in 1997. It presents true stories told live to standing-room-only crowds. She would go on to represent the country for some years, before finally hanging her jersey. “I retired in 2017 to fully focus on my career, but it was something I loved. Rugby is poorly funded and the management structure was a bit wanting, and I had no control over that, but I had control over my career,” she explains. At Dalberg, Sandra is in an advisory department, where they work in agriculture, healthcare, education and energy to provide solutions. “I have been here for three years now and I know the best is yet to come, because I also really enjoy what I do,” says the 26-year-old.