AFC Leopards have found themselves in a unfamiliar territory and for one of the country’s top clubs, facing relegation in the SportPesa Premier is like a bad dream. Yet this is the grim reality the club’s faithful have to come to terms with after Leopards lost 2-0 to Mathare United in Machakos at the weekend to plunge to the last position in the 18-team chart and in the process swapping positions with Mount Kenya United. Yesterday, Leopards Secretary Oscar Igaida said the fans were overly concerned with the poor performance but nonetheless promised that the team will recover soon rather than late. Igaida said a newly formed technical committee composed of the clubs legends including Dan Shikanda, Peter Ouma, Mahmoud Abbas and Saul Abwao was working closely with the technical bench to tie a few loose ends geared at helping the team turn round its fortunes. “So far, the committee is doing a good work and will further be tasked with helping the technical bench sign good players in the next KPL transfer window. Leopards should not be where it is at the league table but all that will change soon,” said Igaida. He revealed that coach Casa Mbungo has been instructed to hold two training sessions two days a week to put the boys in the right shape. The weekend loss at the hands of Mathare only helped to run wounds in the injuries on Ingwe as only a week prior to the clash they had fallen 1-0 to Ulinzi Stars ion a match marked by skirmishes. Second half substitutes Tyson Otieno and Ronald Reagan made all the difference for the ‘Slum Boys’ who had drawn with with pre-match underdogs Zoo Kericho going into the fixture. Following the win, Mathare are second on the log with 29 points from 15 matches while AFC continues to languish at the bottom with 10 points having played 14 matches. In the meantime, Bandari continued enjoying the driving seat after an otherwise laboured 1-0 win over Nzoia Sugar at Mbaraki Sports ground. Captain Felly Mulumba scored the lone goal from the spot as the dockers prevailed over Nzoia in a result that saw them cling to the summit with 31 points from 14 matches. Posta Rangers and Ulinzi Stars also played to a 1-1 draw in an entertaining match played at the Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos. John Nairuka opened the scoring for Posta but Ulinzi’s fast-rising midfielder Ibrahim Shamba levelled matters with 10 minutes to stoppage time. Chemelil Sugar FC and KCB played to a 1-1 draw in a rain-soaked Chemelil Complex. Justine Monda opened the scoring for the home side in the 10th minute from the spot but Philip Mwangale scored in his own net to equalise for the bankers.