Zachary Ochuodho @zachuodho Savings and Credit Cooperative Societies (Saccos) are still grappling with a myriad of challenges including embezzlement, theft and pilferage, which has seen the movement lose more than Sh500 million every year. Due to lack of interest by members on how saccos are run and the underlying principles behind their existence, cases of embezzlement, theft and pilferage are on the rise. An existing lacuna in the Saccos Society and Cooperative Acts are some of the loopholes fraudsters are using to steal members’ hard earned money. The absence of a unified authority to register, license, monitor and provide regulatory frameworks instead of leaving some Saccos to operate under cooperatives while others exist under Sacco Societies Regulatory Authority (Sasra) is also compounding the issue. Analysts estimate that Saccos lose approximately Sh500 million every year. The losses are attributable to the absence of good governance, lack of regulatory and legislative gaps and absence of prudential guidelines. Cooperative University of Kenya lecturer Ben Nyankone asks the Government to place all Saccos under the same regulatory authority to deter unscrupulous people from using loopholes to swindle members. Nyankone says members should actively get involved in the running of the institution. Commissioner for Cooperative Development Mary Mungai says the government is trying to clean-up Saccos that have refused to adhere to the cooperative principles. Mungai says the government has discovered that some people register Saccos and use them to solicit money from members without putting up proper structures in place. “If we find such Saccos, we deregister them,” says Mungai. She acknowledges that Saccos in Kenya have played a key role in empowering families and individuals in every sphere of life. Cooperatives Cabinet secretary Peter Munya admits that grey areas exist in the legislation thereby providing unscrupulous people with the leeway to mismanage and embezzle funds meant for Sacco members. “The lacuna in the law will be sealed in order to protect members’ hard-earned savings,” Munya says adding that there is the need for Saccos to adopt good corporate governance. Indeed, many Saccos still depend on paper as opposed to digital transactions in processing payments while some hardly conduct due diligence while employing staff who end-up stealing funds. Sasra chief executive John Mwaka says there is need for the non-deposit taking Saccos to also adopt prudential regulations like the deposit-taking counterparts in order to cure liquidity problems. “More than 60 per cent of Saccos attribute the absence of monitoring mechanism to a capacity gap,” he says. He says a lot of individuals have been lured to ponzi schemes that hide under the guise of Saccos unknowingly thinking they are the right organisations to save with. Mwaka argues that in order to monitor and observe trends in Saccos, they recommend that societies need to file reports on a quarterly basis. “This shall align the sectoral lending report with other statutory reports which are usually filed on the same date with the Authority,” he says. Sasra also suggests that a standard and uniform loan classification and reporting template be amended to be in conformity with the template on the comprehensive loans activity report contained in the Authority’s guidelines. Mwaka says attending Sacco annual general meetngs is key in knowing how the societies functions.  He says part of the reasons why some Saccos are unable to pay their members’ dues as spelt out by the law is because of impunity among some directors and employees who hardly understand the cooperative principles. “At times some Saccos borrow at 22 per cent from banks and lend at 18 per cent. This would explain their liquidity problems especially when members decide to leave,” argues Mwaka.