So, Valentine’s Day came and went. Love was in the air as many couples painted the city red. Many, especially the women, would wish this would continue for the rest of the year. But we all know life happens. So how can we stay in love? Before answering that question, it is important to note that there are three kinds of love; agape love, which is the unconditional love, eros love, which is sexual, romantic and feeling love and phileo, which is the friendship love. What we experienced during Valentine’s was the eros love that elicited those good feelings.  That’s what initially attracted us to each other and we hoped it would be like that throughout our relationship. However, it’s important that couples have phileo love. My wife Grace, always advises young people that if you want to get married, make sure you marry a friend. Don’t just get hitched to someone you love (eros love), but you don’t like (phileo love). We want to hang around with people we like and so often I see couples who don’t enjoy each other’s company. They are not friends, they have no common interests. According to The Love Dare, phileo and eros love are more responsive in nature and can ebb and flow based upon feelings. Agape love on the other hand is selfless and unconditional. It is what you meant when you said “I do”. It is only by agaping each other that love will last a lifetime. Truth is, if your reasons for loving your spouse, all have something to do with his/her qualities, what happens when those qualities suddenly or gradually disappear? Your basis for love is over. Love should not be determined by the one being loved, but rather, by the one choosing to love. Both friendship and romance have an important place in marriage, but if your marriage totally depends only on those two, then the foundation of your relationship will be unstable. Nobody can maintain a burning desire for togetherness just on feelings. But it’s also difficult to love someone only out of obligation. So, for two to remain one, all the three loves must be present.