Irene Githinji @gitshee Education Cabinet secretary Amina Mohamed yesterday urged universities to enroll more students in  courses that will drive growth. She said focus on Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics, Agriculture and Fisheries (STEMAF) courses will build capacity for achievement of development aspirations, including the Big Four agenda. Speaking during Aga Khan University 2019 convocation ceremony, the CS said STEMAF courses will produce competencies required to transform Kenya into a newly industrialising, middle-income economy. The number of students enrolling into STEMAF subjects has increased from 20 per cent in previous years to 44.8 per cent in the 2017/18 intake, she said. “We are living in a complex skills-demand and supply paradigm that is unpredictable and highly competitive. We must therefore nurture an education system that focuses on the individual and prepares them adequately for the world of work,” the CS said. Saying universities are the drivers of technological and industrial development agenda, the CS said the government will increase allocation to research and innovation. To survive the tough economic times, she said the ministry had frozen university expansion and  advocated for austerity measures. She, however, urged universities to devise innovative ways to generate additional income to supplement government allocation. Amina said Commission for University Education (CUE) is reviewing the depth and substance of university programmes to eliminate unit duplication and shallow course content. She said 75 per cent of all government coordinated and offered scholarships will be reserved for university faculty with the aim of strengthening capacity and broadening expertise to deliver world-class education. Helb Loans To sustain the uptake of government sponsored students into universities and TVETs, she said the government had increased the  Higher Education Loans Board (Helb) financing to Sh13.5 billion and is sourcing more funds to enhance allocation. On delays in releasing Helb funds to students, the CS blamed bureaucracies of university administrations. She said the Ministry will directly engage institutions yet to adopt the Helb smart card. Amina said the trend of placements into universities and colleges had shifted from the top-heavy model to an ideal inverted model where most candidates are placed in middle-level colleges. This year, 90,744 candidates who attained a mean grade of C+ (plus) and above qualified to join public universities. 121,288 who scored between C (plain) and C- (minus) are eligible for placement in diploma courses in various TVET institutions.