Tusker FC face an acid test in a bid to reclaim the SportPesa Premier League (SPL) title which they last lifted in 2016 when they face reigning champions Gor Mahia in a mid-week clash in Kasarani this evening. The brewers are still brushing off the debris of watching from the periphery when K’Ogalo won back to back titles since then and the potential high octane clash between the two sides today might serve to settle scores. Gor will be coming into the match after having played a competitive CAF Cup group stage fixture against Hussein Dey of Algeria where they ran off 2-0 winners and coupled with the fact that they have been a brilliant force lately in the domestic league, they start firm favourites. A win for Gor will help them dislodge Mathare United from the second position in the league table as both teams will be tied at 29 points with the former enjoying a better goal difference. Yesterday, sulking striker Dennis Oliech joined his Gor team-mates for training at Camp Toyoyo grounds and although he is one of the key players who have been dotting the starting list, the team’s Head Coach Hassan Oktay appeared to down play his presence. ‘Oliech is useful component in the squad but as I have always said before, I have 30 players all of who have roles to play and are available for selection,’’ said Oktay. Speaking on the game against Tusker, Oktay said they expect quite a tough outing against a team hungry for success, adding that he may opt to use fringe players to gauge their capability ahead of the return match against Hussein Dey in Algiers on Sunday. ‘’Tusker is a great team and for us, the match is all about mental strength. You should expect a sprinkling of first choice players and green horns but obviously, the idea here is to continue winning league matches to boost the team’s morale further,’’ said Oktay. Gor have only one injury concern in Joash Onyango who received a knock during the team’s 1-1 draw with Western Stima last week though the defence line is still strong under the team’s captain Haroun Shakava. Despite being underdogs, Tusker are not pushovers and are expected to be a vengeful lot especially after losing 1-0 to Kakamega Homeboyz the last time they tasted domestic action.