Winstone Chiseremi and DPPS @PeopleDailyKe Deputy President William Ruto has asked leaders to channel efforts towards ensuring successful implementation of the government’s agenda. Ruto said since Jubilee took over the country’s leadership in 2013, its focus has been on unity of Kenyans and initiation of development projects across the country. Speaking yesterday at St Paul’s Anglican Church of Kenya (ACK) Ndaragwa, in Nyandarua county, Ruto told leaders to work closely with the National and County governments to ensure successful implementation of projects that have direct impact on the lives of Kenyans. “Jubilee’s focus remains on unity and development. I ask leaders to help in the implementation of our agenda for the country,” he said. The DP said the Executive Order No 1 of 2019 was meant to ensure proper flow of information on the implementation of government projects from the grassroots to the national level. He said development committees would be formed at the grassroots to review ongoing projects and those that have stalled, and the reasons for the same,  for the necessary action to be taken. “We want to have proper flow of information on implementation of development projects from the grassroots to the national level. This is why I ask leaders in the counties to work with such committees,” he said. He said the government was on the right track in implementation of its development agenda, citing the ongoing improvement of roads, health, education, connection of electricity, among other projects. Leaders, who attended the event, said they would resist any attempts to call for a referendum to create more positions, for such a move would further burden Kenyans. Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia said: “We will only accept referendum to amend the Constitution if it aims at increasing resources to the counties. But one aimed at creating positions for some few people, we will not support.” Elsewhere, Elgeyo-Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen said Ruto’s quest for the presidency was on course, dispelling rumours that there were plans to scuttle it. He dispelled claims that there was a rift between Uhuru and Ruto.