Peter Ngila @peterngilanjeri The best part of being a writer or an artist is that when you die, your life’s work lives beyond you. That means writers can rightfully be referred to in the present tense. In the same way, internationally celebrated Zimbabwean writer, Dr Charles Lovemore Mungoshi, who died last Saturday at Parirenyatwa Hospital in Harare, where he had been admitted for a week, will have his books read even when his soul has already departed for the afterlife. Mungoshi died at the age of 71, after a battle with a neurological condition for 10 years, according to family. Soon after news of his death, people of all walks of life went to social media to express their condolences. Mungoshi is survived by 18 books, his wife Jejesi and five children – Farai, Graham, Nyasha, Charles and Tsitsi; and seven grandchildren. Mungoshi was born and raised in a village near Chivhu in Manyene on December 2, 1947. After leaving school, he worked with the Forestry Commission before joining Textbook Sales. From 1975 to 1981, he worked at the Literature Bureau as an editor and at Zimbabwe Publishing House for the next five years. In 1985-87, Mungoshi was Writer in Residence at the University of Zimbabwe, and since then he has worked as a freelance writer, script writer and editor. His 18 works include novels, plays, poetry and short story collections in English and his native Shona language. Dr Mungoshi’s collection of children’s stories, Stories from a Shona Childhood, published by Baobab Books in 1989, bagged the Noma Award; he would later win the award three more times. His other children’s collection of short stories is One Day Long Ago, also published by Baobab Books in 1991. A flexible writer, Dr Mungoshi was also a poet with one published collection; The Milkman Doesn’t Only Deliver Milk, published by Baobab Books in 1998. He has won the Commonwealth Writers Prize (Africa region) twice, in 1988 and 1998, for two collections of short stories: The Setting Sun and the Rolling World, published by Heinemann in 1987 and Walking Still, published by Baobab Books in 1997. This win earned him an invite to meet the Queen of England, Queen Elizabeth II. Two of his novels: Waiting for the Rain, published by Heinemann in 1975, and Ndiko Kupindana Kwa Mazuva published in Shona by Mambo Press in 1975, received International PEN awards. Ndiko Kupindana Kwamazuva was also translated into French. One of his poems was curated by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation as a permanent display of public art at their new headquarters in Seattle, Washington, USA, in 2011..