Fred Aminga and Christine Musa @PeopleDailyKe Export Processing Zone Authority (EPZA) has threatened to revoke licences of enterprises that have not developed land after leasing for more than two years in what is emerging as a probe on usage of the resource. The board, in a notice seen by People Daily, has now given 41 firms 30 days to either start development or lose their leases as it called upon those who are nearing the end of their leases to provide plans in the next two weeks. EPZA Act requires enterprises to develop leased land within 24 months, failure to which the lease is revoked. The notice says that the enterprises which risk losing their licences if they do not comply include Tunasco EPZ Ltd, Ceytun EPZ and Kenmeat EPZ, previously known as East Africa Halal Industries Ltd. “Unless the above named enterprises commence development on the above parcels of EPZ land within 30 days from the date of this notice, the EPZA will start the process of terminating the leases issued,” read the notice. The multi-billion-shilling EPZA land has been on focus after concerns of the authority leasing parcels to firms not involved in production of products for the export market. Concerns have been raised after a private developer hived off part of EPZA land in Athi River setting up what appears to be a petrol station along Nairobi-Namanga road. The investment which is nearing completion raises fundamental questions whether developments can now go contrary to the EPZA Act Cap 517 which mandate’s the authority to promote and facilitate export-oriented investments and to develop an enabling environment for such investments. The notice from the board through the office of the chief executive reiterates this mandate. “The EPZA finally wishes to notify members of the public that it will not allow any EPZ enterprise who has leased land within any of its public EPZ zones to undertake any activity which is not permitted by the EPZA,” said the authority in the statement. This might mean that, EPZA was set up to create a conducive environment for foreign direct investment by providing investors benefits and incentives such as tax exemptions for a specified period of time and relaxed business regulations to spur exports for Kenya. Petrol station When contacted last month on the development of the petrol station on its Athi River land, Acting EPZA chief executive George Makaketo declined to comment on the phone, saying the matter is under investigation. “I may not be able to answer that as it is something still under investigation,” he said. When contacted by People Daily yesterday, he said he was busy in a meeting. He had not returned our calls by the time of going to press.