PD team @PeopleDailyKe The government yesterday launched the National Identity Integrated Management System popularly (NIIMS) in 15 counties, with leaders urging Kenyans to turn out in large numbers to have their information captured. They also moved to assure the country that the exercise has nothing to do with the 2022 General Election. In Nyandarua, Interior PS Karanja Kibicho said  Kenyans will not be required to travel to their home counties to register. He said once the personal data is captured in the system, any county can know how many people registered under its name because the computer will indicate. “People in urban centres such as Nairobi will not be required to travel upcountry counties to register since their data will be captured from wherever they are,” Kibicho said when he launched pilot NIIMS registration at the Wanjohi Cooperative Society ground in Kipipiri, Nyandarua county. Nyandarua is among 15 counties where the pilot exercise is taking place for the next five days. The  exercise will involve 40 sub-locations across those counties. After the pilot exercise, the PS said a mass registration will be carried out throughout the country from March 15. He said the mass registration will run for 45 days, adding that  the exercise is expected to capture more than 45 million people. Speaking in Kilifi, Agriculture, Fisheries and Blue economy PS Ntiba Micheni said the biometric registration will include all Kenyan citizens and foreign nationals residing in the country so that a single person’s identification data can be in place. In Embu, County Commissioner Abdullahi  Galgalo Hiddi  appealed to residents  to come out in large numbers to enrol with NIIMS to help them access government services efficiently in future. In Tana River, Agriculture and Research PS Hammad Bogahas allayed fears that NIIMs would be used for political and religious purposes. Big Four agenda Education PS  Belio Kipsang said the Huduma Namba will help the government plan as it rolls out the Big Four agenda. Speaking in Eldoret, he assured that the information captured will not include DNA as is being misinterpreted by some people. In Kisumu county, which is one of the pilot areas,  a spot check by People Daily revealed there was a high turnout of people for enrolment where the registration exercise kicked off yesterday. In Thika,  National Treasury PS Kamau Thugge said NIIMS  will help the government better plan, enhance national security and ensure easier access to government services. He said the programme will also help State in fighting graft by elimination of impersonation, fraud and also help in integration and harmonisation of accurate data of all government services.