The Kenyan business community wants the Turkish Government to reduce tax it charges tea exports. Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KNCCI) yesterday complained that the Turkish government charges Kenyan tea exports 145 per cent in tax while the latter take a 25 per cent tariff on Turkish imports. KNNCI chairman Kiprono Kittony said the high tariff hurts tea exports to Turkey. On several occasions Kittony confirmed that the Kenyan government has made several requests to its Turkish counterpart to consider reducing the tariff in order to create a level playing ground. “Both countries need to address the tariff issue. Kenya charges a tariff of 25 per cent on Turkish imports whereas Kenyan tea is hit with a 145 per cent tax. There are also other barriers to tea imports such as port restrictions. The high tariffs have resulted in major smuggling of black tea into Turkey, which is four times the legal tea that enters that market. The government is losing revenue as a result of this trafficking,” said Kittony. He said that reduction of the import duty will help Kenya increase the foothold of its primary products mainly tea and coffee in Turkey. The business lobby group further emphasised the need to formulate a bilateral trade agreement between Kenya and Turkey geared toward introducing a concession on imports to Turkey to enhance the great relationship the two countries already have. “Kenya and Turkey have long standing bilateral ties that present huge market opportunities for both parties in the Continental Free Trade Area and other existing Free Trade Agreements that suit the relationships,” said Kittony. Currently, the balance of trade between Kenya and Turkey is in favour of the latter. Data from the department of trade indicates Kenya total exports to Turkey amounted to $23.14 million (Sh2.3 billion) in 2017 showing a slight increase from $ 22.14 million (Sh2.2 billion) in 2016. Kenya imports from Turkey in 2017 increased to $156.05 million (Sh15.6 billion) from $130.08 million(Sh13 billion) in 2016. Kenya’s main exports to turkey include tea, tobacco, crude vegetables, leather and coffee.