George Kebaso @Morarak More than half the 42 surveillance cameras installed in Nairobi at the cost of Sh437 million have ceased to function. According to Nairobi county Roads and Public Works Chief Officer Fredrick Karanja, most of the cameras stopped working almost immediately after installation. Appearing before Nairobi County Assembly’s Public Accounts Committee (PAC) yesterday, Karanja said the County government is not able to repair the cameras because City Hall has no control over the system as it is being operated by the implementing contractor. Security project “The contractor who was awarded the Integrated Urban Surveillance System tender has not handed over the project to the county,” he said. Karanja said the company had asked for Sh7.2 million to repair the cameras before handing over the project to the county government. “We had pledged to pay before the contractor could resume maintenance works and hand over  the project to us but we are yet to settle the bill and that is why the contractor has not resumed the maintenance,” said Karanja. In September 2012, the then Ministry of Nairobi Metropolitan Development awarded the contract to M/S Nanjing LES Information Technology Limited, a Chinese firm. Control centre The project would involve installation of security cameras, vehicle number plate recognition cameras, rehabilitation of signalised junctions and construction of one main control centre at Nairobi area police headquarters and another at City Hall Annex. The PAC said 2015-16 Auditor General’s report stated that 26 out of the 42 cameras were not working. “Others lack requisite equipment to enable communication between control centre and several surveillance points,” the report adds. Auditor General’s report also pointed out that there was no clarification on whether the cameras were capable of detecting motor vehicle number plates. Fight crime The multimillion-shilling project was initiated as part of the government’s plan to fight crime.  The cameras are installed on the  city’s major roads, including Kenyatta Avenue, Uhuru Highway, Moi Avenue, Murang’a Road and Tom Mboya Street. In February 2015, the then Kabete MP George Muchai was shot dead at the Kenyatta Avenue-Uhuru Highway roundabout, but the CCTV cameras could not help the ensuing investigations into the murder. Though arrests were made and a murder trial is underway, the county and national governments were put on the spot after the cameras failed to show the registration details of the vehicles used by the attackers.