Kenya’s sole representatives in the CAF Confederation Cup Gor Mahia are confident of putting their quarter-final onslaught back on course as they welcome back four key players who missed their 2-1 loss to Petro Atletico in Luanda, Angola on February 13. K’Ogalo host Group D leaders Na Hussein Day of Algeria on Sunday at Kasarani and are brimming with confidence at the return of lead scorers Jacques Tuyisenge and Dennis Oliech. The latter missed the trip to West Africa owing to illness while Tuyisenge was serving a one-match ban for accumulating two yellow cards. Defensive midfielder Ernest Wendo is also available for selection after serving his ban and so is right back Philemon Otieno who was direly missed as the Angolan club exploited the weakness in a void he left behind to create a second and decisive goal. Gor Mahia will return to the group pinnacle if they topple Na Hussein Day in Kasarani. Their Algerian club was expected in the country late on Thursday night as they opted for a long trip connecting Nairobi through Turkey. A frustrating midweek draw with western Stima sent panic waves within the team but Turkish tactician Hassan Oktay exudes great confidence in his players’ abilities. “We slipped in our last game and we must correct the mistakes to get right back on track. Missing four key squad members for an away game is not easy and that totally messed our output that day,” Oktay said as he explained the potentially injurious loss to a team Gor Mahia dominated from kick-off to full-time. He added: “I’ve done my homework as usual and watched a lot of games our opponents played recently, home and away and it is my wish that everyone support us fully because we will do our job well. We did it against Zamalek when everyone thought it was impossible and I can assure you that we will triumph here. The objective is reaching quarter-finals and we are firmly on course.” The Turk rested team captain Haron Shakava, Boniface Oluoch, Shafik Batambuze, Kenneth Muguna, Boniface Omondi and Francis Kahata for the midweek tie to keep them fresh for the Sunday game. Gor Mahia finished third in the Confederation Cup group stage last year and are aiming to go one better this season and reach the lucrative knockout stage.