Grace Wachira @yaa_grace Kenyans spend the bulk of their mobile data on betting, social media and adult sites, a report released by Nendo, a consultancy focused on customer insight, competitive intelligence and analysis on the state of cellular usage in Kenya shows. Nendo founder, Mark Kaigwa says many Kenyans use their data on Google, Facebook, YouTube, Betin and an adult website, with the projection set to go higher by 2022. “As of last year, we had consumed approximately 269 million gigabytes worth of data and the projection by 2022 shows we will have consumed 1billion gigabytes, although I think we will have consumed much more than that,” he said. The Status of Mobile Data report indicates that between 2010 and 2015, more Kenyans are using their phones to visit betting sites. “Between 2010 and 2015, the most googled words were Kenya and Facebook but since 2016, Sportpesa has taken the lead, showing that we have an inclination towards gaming,” Kaigwa added, saying that BetIn was also among the most searched words. “It is clear that gaming is an industry growing fast and we can only expect it to pick,” he added. In terms of adult entertainment or pornographic content, two websites XVideos and XNXX, feature in the top 10 at #6 and #8 respectively. Interestingly, no other East African country has more sports betting or adult websites in its top 10 list of websites. Spiked searches It is hard to determine the exact number of Kenyans on the Internet despite the agreement that feature phones and smartphones have greatly increased the numbers. This is largely due to the use of different measurement parameters by those counting. The Communications Authority estimates internet users to be 42.2 million, based on the assumption that every fibre subscription is used by 100 people. But studies elsewhere put the estimation between 13m and 21m. Regardless of the number, Kenyans online have been known to drive certain searches depending on the current socio-political situation. It was interesting to note that during examination periods, and more specifically, Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) examination, the word ‘leakage’ popped, something that Kaigwa attributes to Kenyans thronging the Internet to find the leakages, specifically in Biology. Kaigwa notes that the cooling down of political temperature has seen a drop in fake news distribution. “As of now, even in our very own WhatsApp group, the forward messages about our politicians have died down. You rarely get so much as a link because the election temperatures, which fueled a lot of the fake news, have since cooled down,” he says, adding, “This then means that election years are fertile grounds for fake news as concluded from our research.” Growing industry Aside from one-off searches, Kenyans are using their phones to download social media and money lending applications, with Whataspp, Facebook, Tala, Branch as the most popular downloads. Kaigwa sees data bundles as currency. “It is what we need to browse the internet. Even WiFi connectivity has seen the adoption of the “bundle” approach. Even with the advent of the internet and the strides we are making in accessing WiFi easily, a lot of Kenyans will still use their mobile phones to visit sites they cannot visit using a public network. Since  WiFi is monitored, they cannot visit Sportpesa or Xvideos but can do so on their mobile phones,” he said. He says, devices continue to develop with increased computing and processing capabilities. Not only are  they gaining larger or more effective battery sizes and standby time to allow them go for longer periods of time without frequent charging, they also come with decreasing costs thus greater affordability. Data platforms Currently, the average smartphone owner uses approximately 10 MB per day, amounting to 300 MB per month in a country with about 200 different data plans across all the networks. “Imagine the strain it causes a common mwananchi who does not know how to master all the short code services. They will hardly keep track of mobile data usage and thus, end up saying that a service provider is consuming their data,” he said, adding that telecommunications company are now coming up with more affordable data plans for their users including free WhatsApp and Facebook. Even so, the report notes, Kenyans are now aware of lite versions of their favourite applications, which they are turning onto in a bid to reduce data consumption.