George Kebaso @Morarak China has reiterated its commitment to ensure peace and security in Africa, in line with deliberations held at the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) in September last year. China’s Assistant Foreign Minister, who is also the chairman of the Chinese Follow-up Committee of the FOCAC Chen Xiaodong said although the situation is improving, risks and challenges facing the continent cannot be overlooked. “China hopes that the dialogue will create synergy in thinking and action between the two sides, put forward suggestions on how to implement the initiative, and build momentum for China-Africa peace and security cooperation,” he said in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia on Wednesday. The dialogue in Addis was also attended by Senegalese Abroad of the Republic of Senegal Mame Baba Cissé and the AU Commissioner for Political Affairs Minata Samate-Cessouma. Kenya was represented at the meeting by Foreign Affairs Principal Secretary Macharia Kamau, who stressed that with a strong China-Africa partnership, Africa would be able to sustain the positive trajectory it is currently experiencing in the progressive actualisation of the respective African Peace and Security Governance Architectures. Foreign ministers and representatives of 23 African countries, including members of the AU Peace and Security Council and the five countries in the Sahel region, attended and addressed the occasion. Xiaodong told the meeting that throughout the process, China has been committed to four principles: playing a fair, impartial and constructive role, helping Africa build up its own peacekeeping capacity, addressing the root causes as well as the symptoms, and pursuing cooperation for win-win results. President Xi Jinping announced new peace and security measures for the continent in September last year. Noting that peace and development are closely interlinked, Jinping announced a raft of new measures to strengthen China-Africa peace and security cooperation. The African side noted that going forward, Africa hopes to strengthen communication and coordination with China in the UN Security Council. 