President Uhuru Kenyatta has rejected sections in the Health Bill seeking to give the Nursing Council of Kenya powers to determine remuneration and allowances of nurses. Nurses have been pushing for the establishment of the council to address their interests especially salaries and allowances. In a memorandum to the National Assembly, Uhuru also declined to assent to the bill and referred several provisions relating to the Nurses Act, meaning that the bill will wait a little longer before it becomes law. Uhuru  made reservations on the membership of the Nursing Council of Kenya, the functions and annual report of the Nursing Council of Kenya. The bill which sailed through last year before the House went on long recess, had recommended the establishment of the Nursing Council of Kenya whose powers include determining nurses remunerations and allowances. Sending the proposed law back to Parliament for members to address the memorandum, means  the rejected sections will require two-thirds of the members to vote for it to pass. The move is a big blow to the nurses who are currently on strike protesting low pay and failure by the counties to honour an agreement to increase their salaries. Passed by the National Assembly  on November 7, 2018, the bill proposes to make various amendments to 13 statutes relating to the health sector. Uhuru has also expressed reservations to the Pharmacy and Poisons Act on the definition of the terms “pharmaceutical device, pharmaceutical equipment, pharmaceutical product, and good manufacturing practice. The Head of State has rejected some of the functions given to the Pharmacy and Poisons Board; Under the provisions relating to the Medical Practitioners and Dentists Act, the President has expressed reservations on  a new section, where he wants powers given to the newly established Kenya Medical and Dental Council reduced. Uhuru reservations As for the provisions relating to the Counsellors and Psychologists Act (No. 14 of 2014), Uhuru has expressed reservations relating to the establishment, membership, functions and election of the chairperson, members and committees of the Council of the Kenya Counsellors and Psychologists Society. The law requires the National Assembly to consider the President’s reservations within 21 days. Speaker Justin Muturi directed that the memorandum of the President be committed to the departmental Committee on Health for consideration. The committee, Muturi said  should table its report by February 28 to enable the House to conclude with the Bill within the stipulated timelines.