Bernard Gitau @benagitau The Ministry of Education is in the process of reviewing the National Book Policy to safeguard the quality of books  published in the sector. Education Cabinet secretary Amina Mohamed (pictured) said the policy has not been reviewed for sometime now, adding that the plan is necessitated by the need to offer quality and not just quantity education. “With a liberalised market, the number of publishers has increased tremendously, and the competition is fierce,” she said. Due to this, Amina said the government is committed to quality publishing to ensure it transmits not only what is appropriate to future generations but in the right manner. Amina was speaking during Jomo Kenyatta Foundation (JKF) Scholarships awards ceremony in Nairobi yesterday where 155 candidates who performed well in the 2018 Kenya Certificate of Primary Education exam benefited from  the Sh29.2 million programme. With the foundation so far having funded more than 10,000 beneficiaries, Amina said the ministry has identified it  as a key player in coordinating its philanthropy. JKF managing director Rosemary Barasa appealed to the ministry  to review and reintroduce its primary mathematics textbooks for distribution. In 2018, the government started distributing textbooks directly to public schools in a deliberate move aimed at locking out cartels and middlemen who collude with school heads to siphon billions of shillings. Schools used to receive capitation funds for buying textbooks but the government embraced a new policy in bid to attain 1:1 learner to textbook ratio. By January 20, the Ministry through Principal Secretary Belio Kipsang revealed that the government has distributed 60 million textbooks to public primary and secondary schools. He said the ministry had achieved the 1:1 textbook to learner ratio which is important in effective teaching and learning in school system. The mode of distribution has however,  been contentious  with some of the publishers crying foul over lost businesses.