Martin Mwita @MwitaMartin The merger between Commercial Bank of Africa (CBA) and NIC Group has gained momentum as the two lenders move to seek approvals, with the combined entity creating Africa’s largest bank by customer base. Billed as the continent’s biggest bank deal in a decade, the transaction will bring the total customer numbers to more than 41.1 million in five countries — Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Rwanda and Ivory Coast — with more than 100 branches. CBA and NIC expect their union to obtain shareholder and regulatory approval by the end of the second quarter or June, and when the new entity commences operations in the third quarter, Kenya’s third top bank by asset base will be born. “We expect to present documents to shareholders in the last week of March for them to read and approve before we move to the regulatory stage. By end of quarter two, we expect to have completed the process which will allow us to commence operating as a single entity in quarter three,” CBA Group Managing Director Isaac Awuondo said in Nairobi yesterday during an investor briefing. Privately-owned CBA will get 53 percent of the merger entity, while NIC that is listed at Nairobi Securities Exchange will hold the balance. After the conclusion of the transaction the banks will jointly trade at the bourse. Customer deposits The two strong financial services brands will become the second largest bank in Kenya by customer deposits with a strong liquidity profile of 49 per cent for the group and 51 per cent in Kenya. They will have a capital base of Sh63 billion (group) and Sh53 billion (Kenya), placing the entity at a strategic position to increase its lending capacity, cost efficiency and profitability metrics. The tie-up will raise total deposits to Sh315 billion coming in second after KCB whose deposit currently stand at Sh472 billion. Separately, CBA boasts of Sh179 billion deposits while NIC Sh136 billion. The entity’s total asset base will rise to Sh415.3 billion after KCB (Sh594 billion) and Equity Group (Sh424.3 billion). It will have a loan book of over Sh211.3 billion, becoming the fourth largest after KCB (Sh398.4 billion),Co-operative (Sh252.3 billion) and Equity’s Sh215.6 billion. NIC is a market leader in asset financing while CBA has played a critical role in changing the country’s financial inclusion landscape, mainly through disbarment of M-Shwari mobile loans. As of September last year, CBA had disbursed a total of Sh85 billion since the product was introduced with Small and Medium Enterprises being among the biggest borrowers. Ongoing talks Yesterday, the two announced they had reached a deal which was approved by their respective directors on Tuesday (January 29) following an announcement on December 6, last year of ongoing talks.“The key message is that we have a deal,” NIC Bank Group managing director John Gachora affirmed yesterday, “We will be creating the next generation business in the continent.” The merger is being executed through a share swap, and it is proposed that the 34 shareholders of CBA will exchange their shares in CBA for new shares in NIC, which will be the holding company of the merged businesses. Yesterday at the Nairobi Security Exchange, NIC shares closed trading at Sh33.75 up from Sh29.10 the previous day on a volume of 334,400.