“We shall revisit this but first we must be more clinical in our next matches,” frustrated Kabras head coach Henley Du Plessis during his pep talk with his boys post  a 44-20 Kenya Cup loss to KCB at Impala Grounds last Saturday. An end to a 10-match unbeaten run in neutral grounds for Kabras seemed to be painfully digested by their new head coach who blamed a couple of mistakes and wrong decisions to fail to register their first win over the defending champions. Playing for a quarter of the match without a 15th player following two sin-bins, missed tackles and inferior execution and decision making allowed KCB to largely control the match to score six tries, three conversions and two penalties as the sugar millers failed to score early in the match to manage three tries, a conversion and a penalty in the match to miss a losing bonus. “We made bad decisions and silly mistakes, too many mistakes and got two yellow cards. Our defence was not good. We also missed tackles and allowed KCB to gain momentum on us to score five tries when we could only score three. Left with five rounds to the playoffs we need to win all matches then I will know the right players for the playoffs for us to become successful, ” said Du Plessis. KCB win rewarded the bankers with a 49 points tie with Kabras as Harlequins mauled Strathmore Leos with a bonus on Sunday to unseat Nondescripts for the third place tied at 37 points. KCB head coach Curtis Olago on his side raised the game to surprise the visitors whilst focused on their seasonal goal. “We raise the game to suit our opponent of the day. The players followed instructions and will stick to our seasonal plan, ” commented Olago shortly after the win. Meanwhile Kenya Harlequins picked an away bonus win on Sunday, mauling hosts Strathmore Leos 41-23  to climb a place on the 12-team standing. Harlequins trailed 15-18 at half time but came into the second period stronger to put 26 points past the hosts who retaliated with an injury-time try. Harlequins touched down seven times for the win to return to winning ways coming off an upsetting 15-16 loss to Blak Blad in the 10th round. For the fourth time, Nondescripts had to sweat for the four points in a 10-7 win over Blak Blad, missing a crucial bonus which saw the Red Lion lose the third seat. Impala Saracens and Nakuru picked bonus wins Homeboyz and Mwamba to stay sixth and seventh respectively. Menengai Oilers registered a first Kenya Cup win over Mean Machine to trade places with Blak Blad to sit ninth and 10th in that respect. Leos and Machine occupy the relegation positions after Round 11.