Samburu Governor Moses Lenolkulal has said he is ready to face the consequences if found guilty of embezzling Sh2 billion as alleged by Ethics and Anti-corruption Commission (EACC). The governor distanced himself from members of his staff, including his personal assistant, who were named by EACC for opening companies and awarding themselves tenders and huge pays, saying everyone should carry their cross. Addressing the press outside his office on Thursday, Lenolkulal said his administration is a public entity and he would cooperate with EACC investigators to unearth the Sh2 billion graft. “As a government structure, we are fully open to investigations and we will fully cooperate with all the investigators to ensure this matter is dealt with,” he said. He, however, urged EACC to conduct honest investigations devoid of a political witch-hunt. “The investigating agencies should be honest and devoid of witch-hunting and that is why we are cooperating fully,” he said. The governor said besides accountability issues, every elected leader has a moral obligation to the electorate. He said it would be “evil” of him to oversee misappropriation and embezzlement of public funds, adding that he will fully facilitate the investigation process and those found culpable will carry their crosses.  Lenolkulal urged local politicians not to take advantage of such occurrences to gain political mileage. On Wednesday, EACC detectives raided Lenolkulal’s Karen and Maralal homes and offices over embezzlement of Sh2 billion. EACC claimed that 19 members of staff, including the governor, siphoned more than Sh650 million through their briefcase companies by awarding themselves tenders and huge pays. Residents of Maralal town urged EACC to extend the graft investigations to contractors and junior staff at the county government. James Nakope, a resident, urged EACC to carry out a human resource audit of the county staff, claiming most were not employed on merit. “There is tribalism, nepotism and clanism during employment in Samburu County government and that is why nobody questioned the awarding of tenders,” he claimed. -KNA