Martin Mwita @PeopleDailyKe At least 24 governors were summoned by the Senate watchdog committee last year to shed light on how funds were spent in their jurisdictions. Most are yet to appear before the committee even as the 2018/19 fiscal year enters  its second half. A large number of those who have responded  failed to explain the loss of funds running into hundreds of millions of shillings while first term governors have blamed their predecessors for the losses. According to the Auditor General, records have not been kept well and the counties are not meeting the required accounting standards. Governors who have been put to task include: Cornel Rasanga (Siaya) He appeared before the committee to answer to queries of accuracy of the expenditure on purchase of goods and services of up to Sh1.3 billion. The financial statements could not be ascertained. A report by the Auditor General for the fiscal year ended June 2017, the county had  failed to comply with the Public Procurement and Disposal Act when it bought maize for emergency relief and refugee assistance at a cost of Sh95 million. Mike Sonko (Nairobi) He appeared before the Senate Public Accounts and Investments Committee on December 3. He had twice snubbed the committee when he had been summoned to answer to audit queries on county financials for the year 2014/15. A KPMG audit report on the county spending had revealed that Nairobi could have lost Sh21 billion during the former regime. Sonko has blamed his predecessor Evans Kidero for loss of funds. Kiraitu Murungi (Meru) He appeared before the Senate Committee in August last year. Kiraitu had been invited to shed light on the county’s spending in the 2014/15 financial year where among other issues was a claim of Sh1.1 billion by contractors and suppliers in the county. Kiraitu told the committee an audit of pending bills he had commissioned unearthed shocking details showing only about Sh200 million of the claims was genuine,  revealing that  some projects which were being claimed never existed. Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega) He appeared to respond to queries raised by the Auditor General on spending by his administration during his first term in office. Among issues that were being probed was the decision by his government to pay Sh200 million to farmers contracted by Mumias Sugar Company. In 2015, Oparanya successfully moved to the High Court to obtain temporary orders shielding him from arrest for failing to appear before the same committee. Alfred Mutua (Machakos) He appeared before the County Public Accounts and Investment Committee to shed light on audit queries raised by Ouko over a h7 billion expenditure. The auditor general had indicated that Mutua’s office had failed to provide key procurement documents to show how the funds were spent during the 2014 /2015 financial year. He was turned away after he showed up without the required documents. Okoth Obado (Migori) The governor came under scrutiny for a budget overrun in the purchase of motor vehicles amounting to Sh145 million. The Auditor General noted wastage of public resources, overstating projects costs and wasteful expenditure at the county mainly in the 2016/17 financial year. John Nyagarama (Nyamira) He is remembered for the infamous Sh7 million spending on construction of a gate at the Nyamira Referral Hospital in the 2015/2016 financial year, a decision he defended before the committee. Ndiritu Muriithi( Laikipia) He was called to shed light on the county spending. During the sitting, Muriithi revealed that only Sh490 million out of the Sh1.2 billion that was being claimed by contractors and suppliers in the county was genuine. Granton Samboja (T. Taveta) He appeared to explain how Sh843 million collected in the 2014/2015 financial year was spent during his predecessor John Mruttu’s reign. Ali Hassan Joho (Mombasa) He was summoned to respond to audit queries raised by Ouko on spending during the 2014/ 2015 financial year.  He ended up asking the committee to instead help his administration recover Sh28 billion in unpaid rates which were being held by national government entities.