Kenyan champions Gor Mahia provided a rich twist to their love and hate affair with Egyptian outfit Zamalek by whipping the dreaded Carthage giants 4-2 at Kasarani stadium yesterday. The Confederation Cup Group D tie between Gor and Zamalek served a mouth-watering contest and corresponding goal fest as K’Ogalo shrugged off an early upset to win it in the second half. Zamalek drew the first blood barely six minutes into the game as Ibrahim Hassan beat Boniface Oluoch from the edge of box with a low drive that evaded a forest of legs stationed in Gor defence for a corner. Tuyisenge’s brace Two back passes from Philemon Otieno to Oluoch in a span of 20 seconds precipitated in the corner that Zamalek exploited to punish Gor. K’Ogalo regrouped and started probing the Carthage team in search of a reply and their endeavours paid off. Captain Jacques Tuyisenge scored easily from a counter attack engineered by Francis Kahata and Kipkirui to draw K’Ogalo level in the 24th minute. Buoyed by the quick reply, the hosts piled more pressure on Zamalek and missed two great opportunities to take the lead as sluggish transition allowed Zamalek to recover and thwart two promising attacks. K’Ogalo then got a second goal in the 38th minute as Tuyisenge again beat goalkeeper Mahmoud Elrehim from close range this time with his head after Boniface Omondi floated a cross to the back post. Zamalek then exploited K’Ogalo’s weakness of not having a defensive midfielder in the game. Ferjani Sassi threaded a grass-cutting pass that left Gor central defensive pairing of Charles Momanyi and Joachim Oluoch beaten. Ibrahim Hassan obliged to the pass and easily beat Oluoch from point blank to register his brace in the 43rd minute and both teams took a two-all draw to halftime. Birthday present Nicholas Kipkirui, who had showed signs of stage fright in the first half, came from the dressing room emboldened and ruthlessly tucked home Tuyisenge’s cross six minutes after restart to prop Gor back in the lead. Ex Kenyan international Dennis Oliech then joined the fray late on to add a fourth goal with one minute of regular time remaining in what was a belated birthday present for him after turning 34 yesterday. Gor coach Hassan Oktay failed to field a single defensive midfielder, instead opting for Kenneth Muguna and Lawrence Juma who are both attack-minded. Oktay also decided to throw Kipkirui into the fray and the former Zoo FC man repaid the faith with a third goal at the start of second half while the central defensive pairing of Momanyi and Oluoch proved capable of holding forte. “It is a fair result but we could have scored two or three more,” said Oktay.