Zachary Ochuodho @zachuodho The government has moved to stop the chairman of Ekeza Sacco David Ngari from selling properties belonging to his real estate company to protect savings by members. Commissioner for Co-operatives, Mary Mungai is expected to move to court today to stop the sale through a court order until ongoing investigations into the troubled sacco are concluded. This follows a directive from Industry, Trade and Co-operatives Cabinet Secretary, Peter Munya. “The commissioner will move to court by Monday to seek injunction so as to stop him from auctioning, dealing or transferring any property connected with Ekeza Sacco,” he told a media briefing in Nairobi. Ngari, commonly known as Gakuyo, through a notice in local dailies of January 24, 2019, placed for sale Lillies Hotel in Juja, Salama House and Swift Breeze Hardware on Garissa Road, Thika, a quarry in Murang’a and 250 acres of land in Murang’a and Machakos counties. The sale is intended to repay more than 53,000 members seeking a total refund of Sh2 billion. Munya, however, said he has instructed the Commissioner for Co-operatives to stop the sale through the court to allow for the completion of the ongoing inquiry and subsequent submission of findings to members in line with the Co-operative Society Act. The CS said the inquiry was launched on December 17, 2018, to know why the Sacco, earlier set for liquidation, but successfully appealed the matter, is unable to discharge its responsibility. Munya said based on the findings and recommendations of the inquiry, the ministry will take decisive measures to ensure members of the Sacco received all their dues. He said the ministry has realised that only Sh116 million has been paid to the more than 2,000 members who have less than Sh75,000 in deposit. “The government will not have any mercy on anyone found guilty of any covert or overt impropriety in the administration of members’ funds,” Munya said. He said apart from Ekeza Sacco, there are other four saccos, which the government has been investigating over mismanagement of members’ fund and will release the findings once the inquiry is completed. Munya said among the four saccos being investigated, report on three are complete  while one is still ongoing and assured sacco members that the government will recover all the funds which were embezzled.