Mercy Mwai and Alvin Kariuki @PeopleDailyKe The Kenya National Union of Nurses (Knun) and the Senate, Labour and Social Welfare committee have jointly accused government institutions of conspiring to block the implementation of the Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) that proposed an increase on nurses’ allowances. They claimed that Council of Governors (CoG), the Salaries and Remuneration Commission (SRC) and the National Treasury are to blame for the ongoing nurses’ strike. The move came on a day that the committee told counties they are free to use the manual register to pay the nurses if they cannot access the online system even as it summoned the  CoG, SRC, Treasury and Health ministry to appear before it tomorrow. Earlier in the day, the nurses had vowed to defy  a court order issued on Tuesday  to end their strike maintaining they will continue until the return-to-work formula has been fully implemented. However, health services in most public hospitals across the country went on uninterrupted as several county governments have honoured the deal. Knun secretary general Seth Panyako, has blamed CoG for moving to court yet last year they advised the union to go on strike if the allowances will not have been paid. At a meeting between the committee chaired by Nairobi Senator Johson Sakaja and Knun officials led by the Deputy secretary general Maurice Opetu and national executive committee member Stephen Rutere, the nurses claimed the CoG has issued letters to counties asking them not to pay nurses despite the November 2017 CBA agreement that paved way for the increment. Knun said while some of the counties are ready to honour their agreements, the major problem has been with the CoG and SRC.  The officials also claimed out of 47 counties, 22 have refused to honour the CBA agreement  because they have redirected the money to other development projects at the expense of nurses. Senators Sakaja, Mutula Kilonzo Junior (Makueni), Samson Cherargei (Nandi), Isaack Mwaura (Nominated) told the SRC and the CoG they have no mandate to determine pay perks for public servants. In particular, the senators told the two to keep off the affairs of the nurses and to stop creating unnecessary stumbling block towards the implementation of the CBA  signed by the governors. “We must put a stop to diversionary tactics and institutional conspiracy, when they want to engage the nurses they are available but when it comes to implementation they are not,” said Sakaja.