Most Nairobians, especially ladies, know Kenyatta Market as the hair-braiding hub of the capital. The salonists there aggressively market their services and are known to follow an undecided lady down the narrow alleyways; especially if your hair has signs that it requires special attention. I found myself in one of those stalls without recalling the how of getting there. I didn’t even intend to be plaited. I was just there to check on my friend and run a few errands. Though it cost me a fortune, their braids lasted longer than at my usual salon, and were, therefore, in the long run actually cheaper. I salute their aggressive efforts of kutafuta unga every day. Hair matters aside, the rest of the market is a maze of nooks and crannies that hold hidden gems, such as the Vinyl shop that seems to defy time itself. Vinyl and Shellac For those who don’t know, before digital downloads, CDs and even cassette tapes, there was something called vinyl. Most people my age grew up consuming music this way. In my case, my father was constantly belting rhumba tunes from his record player. If you are feeling overly nostalgic or just want to learn more about the records, make a point to visit Mr James Rugami’s thriving shop, in the heart of Kenyatta market. I found myself there just recently, trying to reminiscence on the good old days. It is impossible to get lost at stall 570, which blends in with the smoky aromas of nyama choma in the small alleyways of the thronging market. If you are not keen, you might mistake him for one of the butchers, but his pride and joy lies strictly in selling vinyl records. On this day that I take a trip to his stall, he dons dark jeans and a beige long sleeved shirt top. His customary Jaramogi hat, which is in almost all his photos, adorns his graying head. He welcomes me with a warm smile and my curious eye couldn’t help but notice the records, old record players, tapes, a few vintage film cameras as well as some old shellac discs. “Mr Records” store is not just about making cash, but also about maintaining identity and roots. From time to time he welcomes school children to his establishment on trips and it’s always special for him to impart his vast knowledge on this disappearing music medium. He has been at it since 1989 when he visited his sister who had a stall there. He used it for four months as a landmark to acclimatise himself with the imposing city. Since then, the shop has survived the decline of vinyl, the popularity of tapes, the birth of CDs as well as the threat of piracy by adapting to the changing trends. His clientele comprises of both the young and old, some bringing their father’s old record players to be restored. Aside from selling 7 inch  and 12 inch vinyl records, Jimmy restores broken record players. The only other artefacts in his shop are Work in Progress record players, which go for as high as a cool Sh150,000. Meaty delicacies Kenyatta market is just as famous for it’s roast meat. Once your order is taken, your nyama choma order will be delivered still sizzling on a chopping board with a side of kachumbari and ugali. How perfect? Fun fact, did you know that before President Uhuru Kenyatta spent Sh21,000 on nyama choma in this place, the B6 meat stall used to be called Hai Hai? This changed, however, after the president set foot and ate in that place, and it’s now referred to as Ikulu Ndogo. The market doubles up as a shoe heaven. There are skilled cobblers who will revamp your favourite pairs or hook you up with a fresh new one. If you love bespoke shoes, check out the beautiful display of bespoke shoes that the cobblers of Kenyatta Market are making. You can place your order and wait as they stitch.