It’s Thursday evening and we plan for a polite drink-up with friends. However, we ran out of options for an entertainment joint that can serve both some good old-school music and is pocket friendly. Well, I remembered a while back, a former colleague suggested Blackyz Lounge along Chaka Road and he spoke highly of it, especially on the weekdays. Off we dashed, fingers crossed hoping it was a good idea. Once we alighted, the first thing we noticed was a fleet of cars parked on both sides of the club, which automatically meant that it was a full house. It of course cleared our doubts. Walking towards the club, a group of three waitresses, dressed in short golden dresses, escort us to the sitting area. That did not sit well with me as I always plan to walk around a new establishment and find a suitable place. We finally settled at the right at the entrance of the bar where we could have a full overview. The ambience was quite okay and I would describe the place as for the grown and sexy. You see, it is not too specific on decor and the theme is simple. At every corner there are white couches paired with a wooden and the walls painted in bold colours of crimson red broken by some touches white. Nothing too fancy I must say, but the bar set up was quite endearing. We get service after a few minutes and I noticed they were quite friendly, though, a few of them made their way to our table severally, inquiring if we were attended to. Answering the same question gets tiring after a while, and one wonders why they were not coordinated. I went ahead and ordered for a Tequila Sunrise cocktail as my other colleagues were all about their beers. Ooh one more thing, the ladies who were dressed in short golden dresses were not the in-house waitresses, they were promoting a bottle of whisky known as Dewar, which was on offer that night. Their usual servers, however, are all dressed in black and white outfits. Back to my order, as I was served, the cocktail just looked heavenly. Orange at the bottom, yellow on top and brimming with ice. First sip and the drink had just the right amount of alcohol, a bit on the sweet side, but I enjoyed it nevertheless. They have a wide range of drinks that range from Sh250 to Sh450 for the beers and Sh5,000 to Sh10,000 for a bottle of whisky, gin or vodka. The club is quite known for good fast food meals and we tried their nyama-choma. Tender and juicy with just the right amount of salt. Music on the other hand was a plus as the famous DJ TeeBoy played back to back old-school hits. I felt right at home and BlackyZ has earned a spot on my go to clubs on a night out.