Mathare United and Sofapaka are considered equals and whose meetings in the SportPesa Premier League (SPL) are always explosive. The equilibrium between the two is well choreographed in their last five meetings with each team notching two twins with one match ending in a draw. Today at Kasarani Stadium, the two teams will square it out in the first leg of the 2018/19 SPL and whoever will break this interesting deadlock in form of stats will have the bragging rights. Sofapaka coach John Baraza said that they are wary of the threat Mathare may pose and especially given that the ‘slum boys’ are not only at the summit of the league but have only lost a single match since the season began. “Playing against front-runners like Mathare is not easy as they fancy remaining in the driving seat of the league. But having said that, we can take solace in that we have been able to successfully compete with them in previous meetings and I believe we can prevail over them,’” said Baraza. Baraza has yet to lose a match since replacing Melis Medo as Sofapaka coach three weeks ago, winning four straight matches and this is the record he hopes to stretch against Mathare. His Mathare counterpart Francis Kimanzi does not expect an easy match either. He said: “Sofapaka is a strong team and I believe they will give us a good match. It is essential to reap maximum points to boost the confidence of the players ahead of more involving fixtures.” Meanwhile, several other mid week matches are spread out at various grounds in the country with the other highlight clash being between Kakamega Homeboyz and Kariobangi Sharks at Bukhungu Stadium in Kakamega. Barely a week after losing 2-0 to Sofapaka, Sharks bounced back with a 3-1 win over Ulinzi to prove that their campaign has not gone off the rails. In yesterday’s matches, KCB beat Mount Kenya United 2-0 in Machakos, Bolton Omwenga scoring in each half while in Awendo, Sony Sugar were restricted to a barren draw by Chemelil Sugar while Ulinzi Stars shared the spoils with Western Stima in a 1-1 draw at Afraha Stadium.