As a passionate traveller, I’ve always wondered why hotels and resorts advertise that they offer luxury, and when you get there, one is treated like every other guest at any other establishment. The rooms are too many, the service is barely up to standard, and sometimes the staff won’t care to listen to your needs. This is typical of most hotels in Kenya, well I can only speak of Kenya as I have only experienced such sub-par treatment here. I recently travelled solo to Lonno Lodge in Watamu, and its here I finally understood the real meaning of luxury. Luxury isn’t so much about how the hotel looks, but rather it’s in little intimate details such as the privacy of the rooms and the personalised treatment. Oh, did I mention peace and quiet? It’s when I can have a one on one conversation with the general managers and actually feel at home, even when I’ve travelled alone. The lodge is just 25 minutes from Malindi Airport and if you come by bus, just alight at Watamu and take a tuk-tuk or taxi to the place.  I arrived early morning and the proprietors, Silvia and Aldo, were there to meet me, na kunikaribisha kwa moyo mkunjufu, as they say in Swahili, a warm-hearted welcome. As I headed to my room, I couldn’t help but notice their magnificent pool, which made me cry, as I still have to learn how to swim. It’s one of my goals this year though. That, and riding a bicycle. I never knew how all that would catch up with me later. As we walked along, I realised the buildings blended calmly into the rocky grounds interspersed with palm trees and plants.  As I later learnt, Mr Aldo, who was also the main architect of the lodge, desired to blend both Roman and Swahili cultural influences in the design. I entered my suite and marveled at how spacious it was and adorned with great artifacts. The Swahili style bed was upstairs, affording me a spectacular view of the ocean. I think another thing that wowed me is their fast Internet. One doesn’t need to step out of the cozy room when you have good Internet around. I equally loved the easy access to the restaurant and all the other amenities such as the reception area and the bar. I think it’s a bit inconvenient to have to walk through the entire complex just to go to the restaurant or when you just want to cool off in the pool, as I have experienced in other establishments. The meal times are set and one has the option of deciding what they desire to munch on the night before. Though the menu is designed as per the guest’s requests, Italian flavours dominated the menu when I was there and it was quite the experience expanding my palate. For instance, I got to try out risotto in a cheese basket as well as a crab graniti with fries. I never leave any place without trying out the fries and they were simply scrumptious. Their spaghetti dishes were also full of flavour and I almost forgot to mention that for the first time in my life, I tried out eating raw fish. I’d always steered clear of sushi for fear of not liking it, but surprisingly, I loved the taste of Carpaccio, the raw taste was somewhat masked by the lime which added a bitter taste to the dish. If you are bored, you can take a tuk-tuk and drive around town, have a taste of mshikaki (skewered grilled kebabs), or just interact with the friendly locals. The area feels much safer and serene than the bustling and noisy Mombasa scene, or worse still, the hostile streets of Nairobi. The beach is only accessible at low tide; and one can stroll down into Watamu town, which is roughly a 20-minute walk. During high tide, it’s soothing to watch the ocean race in and crash into the craggy cliffs.