George Kebaso @Morarak Opposition leader Raila Odinga and Central Organisation of Trade Unions (Cotu) secretary general Francis Atwoli suggested yesterday that Kenya should borrow a leaf from China in dealing with corruption. Addressing a Pan-African symposium at a Nairobi hotel yesterday, Raila said Kenya had reached a stage where ruthless action should be taken to deal with the “cancer” of corruption. “In China it is difficult to survive as a corrupt person. The Chinese government executes corrupt individuals,” Raila said and called  on Kenyans to stand up against vices that are impoverishing the country. Death penalty In China an errant official’s life is worth Sh46.3 million ($463,000), in a revised punishment of April 2016 by judicial authorities in the Asian nation. The legal clarification makes the death penalty applicable to anyone who either embezzles, or accepts bribes of that sum or more. But in certain “especially serious” instances “with extremely vile impact,” like when officials embezzle disaster-relief funds,  that can be ground for death by firing squad, according to a report in a US newspaper. The former Prime Minister, who has been in a working relationship with President Uhuru Kenyatta since early last year,  said taking a route similar to the Chinese one could be the panacea to the “abnormal” corruption in the country. Raila and Atwoli also demanded that government officials who have been named or suspected of corruption step down to allow investigations. The two were speaking during the 30th anniversary of Pan-African Trade Unions conference. “The government enemy is not the trade unions but those involved in stealing taxpayers’ funds. Workers just need trade unions to secure their interests,” Raila said. Man-hunt Atwoli warned that if the President fails to sack corrupt officials, Kenyans would mount a man-hunt and arrest them. “Even as trade unions champion for the interests of those already in employment, there are millions others who are out of work and pray that we create a good environment for more firms to set up and absorb more people,” he said. Saying workers were fully behind the fight against graft, Atwoli asked Uhuru to deal decisively with corrupt cartels or risk mass action from citizens. “The President should know that workers are fully behind his resolve to fight graft in the country, and should heed our call,” he added. Atwoli said the country was struggling economically because of a few individuals who were determined to grab everything. “Workers of this country are 100 per cent behind your fight against corruption. We need to handle these corrupt fellows and if they will not be put in prison, I can tell you that citizens are going to take it into their own hands to hunt them down,” he said.