Barry Silah @obel_barry Britam Tower has clinched the Emporis Skyscraper Award, making it the only building in Africa to feature among top 10 buildings in the world in the award’s nine-year history. Emporis Skyscraper Award is the world’s most renowned prize for highrise architecture. Winners are chosen by a jury of architecture experts from all over the world, while the nominated buildings are judged based on their achievements in functions and aesthetics. The iconic tower, developed by Britam Properties Ltd, is currently the tallest building in East and Central Africa, rising from Nairobi’s skyline at 200 metres. Located in pristine Upper Hill, the 31-storey skyscraper offers panoramic view of the Kenyan capital and its surrounding areas. On clear days, both Mount Kenya and Mount Kilimanjaro can be seen from the top of this cutting-edge building. Renowned creators Nairobi City is lately witnessing an upsurge of property development by world renowned creators with Upper Hill being the centre of attraction. UAP Towers, in the same area, is also a masterpiece and stands tall with 33 storeys with eye-catching architecture. Britam Towers was assessed among other buildings in Europe, Asia and the United States that included Generali Tower in Milan, Chicago’s 150 North Riverside and Riverpoint. The top spot went to the Lotte World Tower in Seoul, South Korea. Energy efficiency Triad Architect said the compelling tower made its appearance on the list for its prismatic shape, fascinating facades and its functional design, adding that it form offers a variety of shapes and sizes to the floors with eye-catching views of the city. “Britam Tower exceptionally relates with its environment by respecting the science of sustainability and energy efficiency. Its innovative engineering and well-considered geometry puts it at the world’s spheres of marvelously crafted skyscrapers,” it added in a statement. The building is the international headquarters of Britam Holdings Plc and also serves as the regional headquarters of the business conglomerate.