London, Monday @PeopleSport11 Under fire after Chelsea’s 6-0 loss to Manchester City, Maurizio Sarri (pictured) said he was always under pressure. Maurizio Sarri insisted his job was “always at risk” after a humiliating loss to Manchester City put further pressure on the Chelsea head coach. Chelsea suffered their third defeat in four league games, a 6-0 thrashing at the Etihad Stadium marking the club’s biggest ever Premier League loss. Sarri’s side have fallen to sixth in the table and sit a point behind the resurgent and fourth-placed Manchester United. Asked if he feared for his job, the Italian said there was always pressure and a risk he could be sacked. “You have to ask the club. I am worried about my team,” Sarri told a news conference. “I am worried about the performance, but my job is always at risk. So, I am not worried about the club. You have to ask the club.” Meanwhile, a Chelsea supporter threw his membership card on to the pitch in frustration after Antonio Rudiger came over to apologise in the aftermath of the shocking away defeat. Chelsea fans were livid following a woeful performance that has intensified the uncertainty regarding the future of manager Sarri. After the game defender Rudiger went over to the club’s supporters to give his shirt to a fan and apologise for the display. One fan berated Rudiger, while another appeared to swear at him. And it was after one confrontation that a fan threw his membership card, which gives supporters the opportunity to buy tickets before they go on sale to the public, on to the pitch. Nevertheless Rudiger did receive some praise for his actions. Twitter user Lewis, @CarefreeLewisG, posted a video of Rudiger coming over to the fans and stated: ‘At least he cares’. With Chelsea in sixth place in the Premier League having lost three of their last four top flight fixtures, Sarri’s future has been called into question. Chelsea are in Europa League action against Malmo on Thursday but they have some tough games on the horizon, including Manchester United in the FA Cup, Manchester City in the Carabao Cup final and Tottenham in the Premier League. -FOTMOB