So, last week social media was awash with a sad story about how a comrade was wooed by a renowned gospel musician, but instead of being prayed for, she was preyed on and ended up contacting a sexually transmitted disease (STD). The story lit up a huge fireball on social media as netizens came out guns blazing to condemn the singer who was accused of luring the 20-year-old First Year student into a carnal misadventure. You see, predictably, society expects these guys who preach in music, to heed the words they preach. Isn’t it a great irony to pick up a venereal disease from a gospel artiste? To these pious gospel folks, shouldn’t ‘H’ stand for ‘holy’ and ‘hallelujah’ and not herpes? Anyway, that’s the story. The musician named in the story has since come out to “repent for living a life of sin” and, of course, promised to be “a better person”. For an apology to merit as one, the devil was blamed as the key architect of the act. We, however, cannot confirm the devil’s participation as we did not manage to reach him for a comment by the time of going to press (pun intended). But what pains in a story such as this is the 20-year-old pristine, naïve fresher. The young girl had just joined campo with so much enthusiasm. She was up and ready to hit life with all she had and so, she started with your typical first-year career choice, a model. She went out in confidence and reached out to celebrities on social media seeking an opportunity to venture into modelling. But as such tales always end, she was lied to, preyed on and abandoned with a heavy baggage that almost led her to suicide. Hers is a story that is not new in campo; of freshers who come to campus with so much spirit, but trust the wrong people who take advantage of their naivety. The worst bit is, the disgraceful ‘hyenas’ who prey on these little girls know their inexperience with the world, her craving for discovery and deploy that to manipulate. Most First Years return home after two confusing semesters with hidden scars of tales that will never be told. It is some sort of a welcoming ritual that transforms one’s innocence into life-long distrust. First Year chics should now be classified as endangered species. It should not always be a story of a girl who left her home for campus, but never returned with her innocence. Daughters of your mothers, stop trusting too quickly. Campo is not high school, it’s not an easy life out here. Nobody is as good as they portray themselves. I mean, if a daughter of Zion can contract an STD from a gospel musician, what is not possible now? Take care!