Reuben Mwambingu @reubenmwambingu Education Cabinet secretary Amina Mohamed has warned parents against enrolling  2018 Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) graduates to technical and vocational training colleges. She said it is against the right of any child to be enrolled at a vocational training facility without passing through the recommended  education channel, adding that it is risky to expose children to some courses such as  automotive engineering and masonry at a tender age. Speaking during the launch of a campaign dubbed “100 per cent Transition in Kajiado county” she reiterated government’s commitment to attaining 100 per cent transition from primary to secondary schools. “Every child has a right to education. As a ministry, we have prioritised 100  per cent transition to secondary schools and we are in the process of amending the Education Act to ensure that this is attained fully,” she said. She said Ministry officials have prepared data packets bearing actual names and location of the students yet to report and would continue filing accurate daily returns on the status of reporting to schools until the government attains 100 per cent transition. Amina added that the government would step up its door-to-door campaign in search of 100, 000 students countrywide, who are yet to join Form One, adding that the ministry will be relying on chiefs, their assistants, teachers and education officials to track them down. At same time, the government has directed parents and guardians whose children have not  joined secondary school to take the children to the primary schools where they sat exams in the next 48 hours for re-assignment to nearest secondary schools. Basic Education PS Belio Kipsang at the same time warned primary school heads that they will be held accountable if any of their candidates will be found not to have joined Form One. The PS said the government will between today (Tuesday) and Thursday dispatch a team of officers from the National government, among them curriculum support officers, sub-county directors of education, chiefs and their assistants to various primary schools to ensure “all children who sat for KCPE transit to secondary schools.” “All the officers will be at the primary schools to ensure that all problems hindering 100 per cent transition are solved instantly… the officers will see to it that every child is reassigned to the nearest school,” said Kipsang, who yesterday declared Coast as the region that holds the only key to 100 per cent transition. Speaking during a meeting with education stakeholders and top administration chiefs at Sheikh Khalif Bin Zayed Al Nayan Secondary School in Mombasa, Kipsang said as of Monday,  the national secondary school transition stood at 90 per cent with some regions such as Nyeri county posting 100 per cent.