Bernard Gitau @benagitau Shocking. Callous. Unbelievably reckless— and outrightly idiotic! This does not even begin to capture the extent of toxic waste dumped into the filth-choked slush that is the Nairobi River. Yesterday, while on an inspection tour of the river, Environment Cabinet secretary Keriako Tobiko and his team, all in outdoor gear, came face-to-face with the reality of what those charged with keeping residents safe and healthy have ignored for too long: A toxic river that is not only slowly but surely dying, but dragging along many innocent lives into an early grave. The epicentre of this poisoning scandal where contaminated medical waste—mountains of blood bags, used HIV/Aids testing kits, syringes and gloves—were found was Kirichwa river, a tributary of Nairobi River at Kawangware slums. Tobiko’s words captured the calamity that is supposed to be a life-sustaining source of water for many Nairobians: “This is dangerous, we need to know and prosecute individuals and health institutions disposing medical waste on the riverbed.” National Environment Management Authority (Nema) director general Prof Geoffrey Wahungu had initially directed that medical waste be buried or burned, but after consultations, he urged his team to collect the waste for proper disposal in  incinerators. Closer scrutiny by People Daily revealed an alarming fact that blood in some of the syringes from HIV testing kits had positive results for the virus.  “This is not only an environment issue but also a national security threat,” Tobiko said. Unlicensed clinics and health facilities around Kawangware and other informal settlements with no incinerators and other waste management facilities have been blamed for what could be termed attempted perpetration of mass deaths. Contacted for comment on the disposed medical waste, deputy Public Health director James Wainana said: “It is a sad state of affair and should not have happened.” His vow to deal with the culprits led to the arrest of  five medics operating reportedly unlicensed clinics in the area. The exposure showed the shocking abdication of the National and Nairobi County governments’s commitment to rehabilitate the dying river, whose life is being suffocated by effluent from the several factories in the city’s industrial areas, open sewers, uncollected garbage, human waste, agro-chemicals and metals.