Emmanuel Masinde @baromeo Africa U20 silver medallist Sandrafelis Chebet will be among the top athletes from South Rift to lead the chase for honours and a place in the Kenya team during the national cross-country championships on Saturday. Chebet who was placed second during regional championships in Kericho will marshal forces with 2016 African Cross Country champion Beatrice Mutai and 2013 Africa Youth 1,500m silver medallist Eva Cherono. Mutai won the race ahead of Chebet as Cherono completed the podium to book a slot for national championships. Chebet will receive stiff competition in 10km race from top cream runners like world 5,000m champion Hellen Obiri from Kenya Defence Forces (KDF), former world 3,000m steeplechase champion Hyvin Kiyeng, former world junior silver medallist Stacy Ndiwa (Police), world 10,000m bronze medallist Alice Aprot, former world cross country champion Agnes Jebet Tirop among others Chebet who is familiar with the course though obstacles have been added said she is ready but will do her best to be able to get a slot to the national team. “I know the course very well despite of the obstacles, now I’m in intense training to be able to face the championships and cut a slot to the national team,” said Chebet. This weekend, the spectacular biennial run will upcoming and elite athletes who will line up on the race that enters its 43th edition of the World Cross Country Championships. Dreams will come true for some athletes who will turn up for the first time to compete in the race from different affiliates. Chebet, the World U20 title-holder in the women’s 5,000m, has a personal best of 30:57 in 10km she posted in Valencia, Spain. Kericho-based runner  has been doing well in international and local races , last year Chebet won 8km senior women category during Isaiah Kiplagat Ndalat Gaa Kids Memorial cross-country in Nandi County timing 27.53.8 and later she continued with her brilliant run  to win 10km Lotto Foundation Baringo run  clocking 33.34.05 . In junior category World under- 20 5,000m champion Beatrice chebet, will face off with World Under18 800m silver medalist Lydia Jeruto and 2018 Discovery cross country champion Roselinda Jepketer.