Amos Abuga @PeopleSports11 Double Olympic 800m champion David Rudisha, is hopeful he will be ready to defend his Olympic title next year in Tokyo, Japan. The World 800m record holder has been missing in action since appearing in the Racers Track and Club Grand Prix on June 10 2017, a retirement race for Jamaican Sprinter and track legend Usain Bolt. In that race, the London 2012 and Rio 2016 Olympic gold medallist was beaten just before the line by former World Youth champion Willy Tarbei who clocked 1:44.86 against Rudisha’s 1:44.90. “My desire is to go on and defend my Olympic title next year in Tokyo, Japan, that can only happen if I am in the right frame of mind without negative distractions. I want to take a day at a time,” the former world champion told People Sport. The Beijing World champion has been missing in action, with few able to tell his whereabouts, a story carried by People Sport last year reported the athlete who had gone AWOL to an extent where he could not be reached on his mobile phone for a number of days, raising queries on his whereabouts during that time. “I can confirm that the hamstring injury that struck my right leg and which locked me out of the 2017 World Championships in London is behind me now. I am now working on regaining my fitness,” said Rudisha who has been training at the Dagoretti Forest, in Nairobi. He added: “I also had a setback, a sitting bone injury that delayed my recovery especially before the Diamond League season last year.” The 30-year-old police officer says he will not be keeping a low profile any longer, since that was necessitated by need for calm as he recuperated. “I’m not sure whether I will be ready for the Doha World championships, I want to recapture my title, but that can only happen if I am ready,” Rudisha whose focus now is fitness and weight loss said. Speaking after attending the just concluded National Cross Country championships in Eldoret, the man of the famous 1:40.9 record quashed rumours that he has retired from the track. “I know I am a performer, and therefore there is nothing to prove to anybody, my coach Brother Colm O’Connell keeps reminding me of that, and to be honest those are the kind of people I need in my life, positive energy,” Rudisha added. On the future of the two lap race which has seen the emergence of promising youngsters, Rudisha is happy to see athletes register encouraging times. “Whenever I see less than 1.42, I feel motivated; I know that the track is in good hands. Let us keep supporting upcoming athletes,” he concluded.