Tall, dark and… you guess it, Bibba Deng takes pride in his fashion modelling job and wants to build a legacy in fashion. He candidly shares his experiences and style preferences with Cynthia Mukanzi When was your first shot at fashion modelling? It was in 2015 at KCA University in Nairobi when I entered pageantry and received professional training. Before that, I didn’t realise I had what it takes to be a model until my cousin Deng Dunga, a great fashion model in the industry, advised me to try it. I fell in love with it. My ability to quickly learn and looks (tall, dark with great facial features) played a great role in building up my profile. What’s your regime in maintaining your professional looks? As a professional model, I have a serious routine that I observe to keep my body and mind fit. I hit the gym for a full body workout routine, two to three days a week. I watch what I eat, but then again, I’m a hard worker in the gym, so at times I get lazy and just eat a bit of the required. However, I understand and respect my body, so I ensure that what I consume is in good ratio to my workout routine. I love carbs though; they give me energy. What’s that one thing people mistake you for? My job is amazing, but I’m also aware people sexualise my body. It sadly happens to models and it is inappropriate. I keep my cool most of the time, but respond when it reaches a point where my privacy and personal space are disrespected. Exactly what makes you stand out? There are absurd expectations put on models in this industry. As more people get into it, it is important to keep in mind that the only thing that makes you stand out is the kind of standards you set for yourself. You should not bend to people’s whims. Define your style? My style is simple and creative with a blush of colour. Every outfit I wear tells a story of creativity. I like bright colours that make me stand out. My height and skin colour are a boost to these. I mainly keep it simple and love turning heads… Ha-ha-ha. What’s your signature fashion wear? I mostly wear clothes made in Kenya. If I’m on the runway and like the outfit I’m showcasing, then I do talk to the designer after the show and put in a request for a similar design or buy it right away if it’s up for sale. What’s your favourite accessory? My necklaces and bracelets. I have a long neck, so it’s easily noticed and of course my wrists as well. I have an affinity for African-crafted accessories. How about your go-to scents. My go-to scents are Acqua di Gio by Giorgio Armani and Sauvage by Christian Dior. They have a masculine fragrance saga that I love and it leaves ladies stunned. Ooh yeah. As a fashionista, what are your aspirations? I am a fashion enthusiast and I would like to make it my long-term backbone. And while I have the time, I’m building a legacy that will live on. I hope to explore oversees fashion modelling industries. A piece of advice to fashion models would be? Put yourself first. Set good standards that will save you from exploitation in the industry and then work hard to build your brand. Be social, respectful and disciplined and everything will fall into place.