Susan Anyango, Teresa Ombiti and David Shariff @PeopleDailyKe Education stakeholders in Mombasa county have stepped up campaigns to enroll all unaccounted for Kenya Certificate of Primary Education examination candidates in secondary school in line with government’s 100 per cent transition agenda. A spot check by People Daily established that several candidates who sat last year’s examination are yet to join Form One. At Khadija Primary School in Nyali sub-county, only 152 students out of 183 who sat the examination, have transitioned to the next level. The headteacher, Johnson Kibuga, lauded the government’s 100 per cent transition initiative saying many students in the Coast region fail to join secondary school because their parents cannot afford school fees. “We are working with the chiefs, village elders and the Nyumba Kumi initiative members to address the problem. So far, I have received five candidates who came with their parents with the intention of enrolling. I am happy with the turnout,” said Kibuga. The 31 candidates who missed out in the admissions, he said, had scored 250 marks and below. He cited poverty as the main reason for low transition rate from primary to secondary school in the Coast region, adding that some of parents whose children are yet to join Form One have contacted him seeking help. “Parents have been coming here for assistance and I have been coordinating with the Chiefs and the Nyumba Kumi Initiative members to ensure no pupil stays at home.Our efforts have borne fruits since some of them are now in class,” said Kibuga. Tree classrooms Elsewhere, pupils in more than 60 primary schools in  Ganze constituency, Kilifi county are learning  under trees because of a shortage of classrooms. Moses Ndune, the headteacher of  Bodoi Primary School, says his school has 190 pupils from ECDE to Standard Five who learn under trees. Addressing a school fundraiser presided over by Ganze MP Teddy Mwambire, Ndune said the school’s mud-walled classrooms were destroyed by wind. He said they are forced to temporarily close the school during the rainy seasons. Mwambire decried the poor learning conditions in most primary schools in the constituency, which he blamed on government negligence. He said he is planning to help build temporary classrooms in the 60  schools once the Constituency Development Fund money is disbursed.