Podcasts are a by-product of radio. Local podcasters are delving into the intricacies of stories that make up the continent, daring to go where others haven’t. As we mark World Radio Day, Cynthia Mukanzi lists a few local podcasts worth listening to 1. 254 Kaa Rada Catch Socratess aka Tessy Aura having fun and cracking herself up weekly on 254 Kaa Rada as she delves into Africa’s socio-political issues. The podcast intends to keep listeners alert on matters affecting Africa in three segments: African Gem, Poli-sosh and Shauri Yako. African Gem lauds exemplary individuals making Africa a better place, while Poli-sosh shines a spotlight on socio-political issues and current affairs. The last segment is where Tessy dishes out advice to her listeners’ questions. 2. Otherwise? Brenda Wambui has been informing listeners on mental health, reproductive health, politics of gender, music, social media, social vices and political structures on governance, among others, through her podcast known as Otherwise? Since August 2016, her show has been giving voice to women who come on board as guest experts from various fields. Wambui uses this podcast as a tool of informational storytelling, breaking down even the most difficult topics to make it easier for her audience to understand. 3. The Spread In a country where sex talk is shied away from, The Spread is just what we need to lift the veil off this precious topic. Karen Lucas aka Kaz is defying the odds by providing space for unreserved discussions on sexual health and the human sexuality spectrum. It spurs conversations about sex in a positive light and has garnered a great following. In the beginning, listeners welcomed the podcast with gasps, but as time went by, they are getting used to it and taking away so much from it. 4. Omenerds Podcast Like a stack of cards, Omenerds Podcast sifts through various themes. They look into music, film, concerts, books, pop culture and everything else that is interesting. With guests on the podcast, the hosts take their audience through each episode with a tinge of laughter and seriousness whenever it’s needed. 5. The Benchwarmerz See the world of sports through the eyes of Lavin and Jazz as they bring you the ins-and-out of the pitch fever. It is a rib-cracker that lays on the table an entertaining twist to sports talk. The Benchwarmerz comprehensively covers the happenings in football, rugby, motorsport, golf, tennis, among others, and shares their take with listeners. 6. The Blaze Podcast The Blaze Podcast is new on the block. Buddha Blaze spearheads weekly conversations on urban African music, culture and entertainment. Blaze brings on guests on each episode to take a deep look at the state of the music and entertainment sphere today while celebrating creatives in the industry. 7. 2 Girls & A Pod If you love reading, then Beverly Ochieng’ and Nyambura Mutanyi know how to cater for you in 2 Girls & A Pod. This literary podcast brings you the best of Africa’s storytellers and more from across the globe as they turn pages of written stories and poetry. They take time with each literary work keeping you glued to every word. 8. Caffé Mocha Caffé Mocha is Jack Rooster’s way of spreading the gospel of house music. The house music deejay’s growth has been greatly aided by the podcast. Jack Rooster converts his radio shows and performances into podcast playlists and shares them on various audio apps. Caffé Mocha has existed since 2010 and has attracted a legion of listeners. 9. For the Culture For the Culture goes into the underground music and gives audience to its creators. Featured musicians tell their stories and what it takes to be in their shoes. They speak of their journey to appeal to listeners and gain support. A selection of deejay mixes are also played. In short, it’s a platform that uplifts artistes who may not always get their content featured on mainstream media channels. 10. Nipe Story There are a lot of ways to consume African literature and Nipe Story is at the forefront of promoting that. The podcast explores short fiction stories through narration by Kevin Mwachiro. Each episode brings to life stories by different authors. If you are a fan of audio books, or have no time for reading, then this is a podcast to listen to on the go.