Harambee Stars players will not get the Sh50 million pledged to them by Deputy President William Ruto for qualifying for 2019 Africa Cup of Nations. The money, according to Sports Principal Secretary Peter Kaberia, will instead be used to facilitate their preparation and participation in the tournament slated to kick-off in Egypt from June this year. Details of the decision to deny the players’ the money, that many team members have thought would be a gift for qualifying for the continental event for the first time in 14 years, emerged as the State Department for Sports presented their budget to National Assembly Departmental Committee on Sports and Tourism for scrutiny and onward presentation to the Budget Committee on Tuesday. Committee chairman Victor Munyaka raised the matter as a follow-up having been present when Ruto visited Harambree Stars camp in Kasarani and made the pledge. “Has the national team been given Sh50 million promised to them by the Deputy President?” questioned Munyaka and Kaberia replied that the money had been included in the proposed Sh244 million facilitation requested by Football Kenya Federation (FKF) to prepare the senior national team for the continental show piece and the Emerging Stars for 2020 Olympic qualification. Munyaka contested Kaberia’s explanation and insisted on the players and technical bench getting the promised reward separately. “I was present when the pledge was made and it was more like a political pledge to the team based on performance. It should be different from official facilitation. Can you separate it and give it to players as a reward? I can tell you it was a performance based reward for beating Ethiopia and guaranteeing their qualification for Afcon,” the Machakos Town Member of Parliament said. Ruto pledged the money together with an official team bus for Harambee Stars if the team trounced Ethiopia and qualify. “We had some delays with the allowances but it has been resolved. We released Sh25 million yesterday for the preparation of this match. You will get your bus next month and if you win on Sunday, the government will give Sh50 million,” the Deputy President said on October 11th 2018 after visiting Harambee Stars camp. The players responded to the challenge and thumped Ethiopia 3-0 at Kasarani to book a place among elite African nations. Goals by Michael Olunga, Eric Johanna and captain Victor Wanyama carried the team to the group pinnacles as Confederation of African Football’s sanction on Sierra Leone effectively ensured Kenya’s place in Egypt. However, neither the bus nor the money has been delivered to the team as promised and now only the National Assembly Departmental Committee on Sports and Tourism is pushing for the executive wing of government to honour their pledge to players. The team is scheduled to camp in France from May but the government it could be a pipe dream if the funds are not availed.