They spread the gospel through their music. Until a dark secret about their sex lives popped up, bringing them down to their knees, not in prayers, but apology Grace Wachira @yaa_grace If recent incidences are anything to go by, then whatever is done in darkness will come to light.  A sex scandal involving gospel Artists Dk Kwenye Beat and The general Hopekid was exposed last week. The victim, A Nakuru-based aspiring artiste ,said how the two lured her into having group sex late last year. Yet the two artistes continued ‘spreading the gospel’ and perhaps spreading the ‘love’ some more. Double life, you may say. Or a case of preaching water and drinking wine. Enjoying both worlds Why? You may ask. “This comes when someone wants to enjoy the benefits of being a born-again and at the same time they want to enjoy what Christians call worldly pleasures. They are greedy individuals who want both worlds. So they want to earn by doing gospel music, yet they won’t follow what the Bible they are preaching says,” sociologist Beatrice Nderitu says. Additionally, the pleasures of the world may become too much for people who don’t have self-restraint. “When one becomes famous, you get to meet and interact with so many people. If you are not careful, you may let your guard down and fall into temptations,” she adds. But do we hold these people to a higher standard? A Nairobi-based pastor who wants to remain anonymous agrees. “If you are truly blameless, then by all means, cast the first stone,” he says. According to him, we all sin, but do it differently. No sin is greater than the other. “It is not to say that the Church condones such behaviour. Christians are called to live like Christ. But nobody is perfect. So, even as we reproach, we do it in love. They are still part of the flock and even if they went astray, they shouldn’t be shunned,” he noted. If they apologised, who are we to then discard the apology? “We are not called to judge others, but to rebuke them in love and lead them back to the cross. It’s not about leading a double life, it’s about making a mistake and if they ask God to forgive them, then who are we to write it off?” he posed. At the end of the day, he said, we all need guidance. Dr Gidraph Wairire, a sociologist lecturer at the University of Nairobi, says that every individual is to a certain extent socialised and rationalised to know what is right and what is wrong. “We all have a moral conscience and to an extent, know what is right and what is wrong. Once someone violates this, then they should be able to face the consequences,” he says. If an artist is truly Christian, Wairire says, then he/she would spend time with God and as a result of that relationship, even the music they sing would relate the same message to the society. “If they do not commune, it will be evident and as a result, we have such cases,” he explains. He adds that the moral decay is as a result of the lack of sensitisation and so, the society has nothing to do with any decisions an individual makes. Secularised Church The sad thing is that these-so-called-celebrities are role models to many young people. Dr Wairire says due to fame that these people have, many youngsters long to be associated with these celebrities because music is a powerful tool; it touches the soul. “They want to be in the shadow of their fame and the minute they get in, they may get in a little too deep. By the time they realise it, it could be too late,” he says. By this time, they have ignored all the moral values and boundaries they have set for themselves. After all, if their so-called role model is doing it, then it must be right. He notes that in today’s society, people are vulnerable. “Opportunities arise and both parties engage without realising the consequences. The exposure makes us prey on one another,” he says. Additionally, the Church has become more and more secularised. Premarital sex and cohabitation between unmarried couples has become norm amongst Christians. “Whatever we are seeing is just the fruits of having secularised the Church,” concludes the sociologist.