Abuja, Wednesday Muhammadu Buhari has been re-elected for a second four-year term as president of Nigeria — Africa’s most populous nation, which faces a range of problems including corruption, an economic slowdown and security threats. BBC Africa Editor Fergal Keane examines the challenges. This was never an election that promised the possibility of a new era. The 76-year-old president and his defeated rival, Atiku Abubakar, 72, have been around the Nigerian political scene for decades and represent two parties often associated with cronyism and corruption. Fighting corruption Indeed Buhari’s victory may in part have to do with public mistrust of his opponent who had to reject allegations of corruption during the campaign. The president did make some efforts in his first term to counter the graft which has seen tens of billions drain out of the exchequer. His personal financial integrity has never been questioned. But he has been widely criticised for not going fast or far enough. Will he be more vigorous in his second term? His absence from the country for long periods due to ill-health — he sought treatment in London for a still undisclosed illness — gave the impression of an administration that often crawled rather than strode. The second problem he faces in fighting corruption is having the necessary political support. There is undoubted public backing but Buhari’s party is compromised by senior members suspected of enriching themselves through graft. The fear is that across the board the looters will carry on pretty much as normal, undermining economic development. Economically the country remains dependant on oil prices for 70 per cent of government revenues — a long-term vulnerability that helped pull Nigeria into recession between 2016-17. Extreme poverty The World Bank has predicted sluggish economic growth: 2.2 per cent for the coming year in a country with unemployment of more than 20 per cent and nearly half the population living in extreme poverty. Buhari also faces an array of security threats from clashes between farmers and herdsmen in the Middle Belt, continuing instability in the oil-producing Niger Delta. — BBC T