Mercy Mwai @wangumarci Parliament will oppose any move to introduce a  50-50 gender representation at all levels of government, the National Assembly Leader of Majority Aden Duale warned yesterday. He said the stalled two-thirds gender bill would be subjected to a vote next week. Consequently, Duale said he would not postpone the vote on the bill as proposed by some women leaders. “Tell those women who met at Serena Hotel that this bill is mine. They can go anywhere they want but the bill will be voted on. As far as I know there is no bill that belongs to women, the current bill is under my name and my signature and I can do what I want with it,” he said. Duale said the House Business Committee (HBC) would pronounce itself on the matter tomorrow and set a date when the MPs could vote on it. “We are going to meet as HBC and make a decision as to when to vote for the gender bill, probably next week,” he said. Last year, Duale urged his colleagues to pass the bill to avoid a scenario where anyone could file a petition to have Parliament dissolved if the bill flops. For the gender parity bill to sail through to the Third Reading stage, it requires two-thirds majority or at least 233 of MPs’ support. The sentiments by Duale come barely two weeks after women leaders said they wanted a 50-50 representation at all levels of government. Under the Embrace Group, the leaders said they would no longer pursue the enactment of the two-thirds gender bill in Parliament but would seek to push their new demands through the Building Bridges initiative. At the same time, Duale declared that the divisions in Jubilee Party would not in any way affect government business in the House. “I can assure you that government agenda in the House will pass. You people can ask me this same question three months from today,” he said. Duale said contrary to claims that the Handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and former premier Raila Odinga had made his work harder, it had actually had made it easier for him to push his agenda forward. Currently, he said, Uhuru had given him firm instructions to ensure his agenda succeeds in the House and that his manifesto is implemented. Meanwhile, the House Business Committee is waiting for a draft proposal on the referendum matter by the Justice and Legal Affairs committee chaired by William Cheptumo, Duale said. In addition, the committee is also waiting for a proposal that will give way on the recruitment of new poll body commissioners following the resignation of four others. Duale revealed he will be meeting Attorney General Kariuki Kihara regarding the conflict of interest bill that if passed would bar public servants from engaging in private business.