Bernard Gitau @benagitau The newly-launched Potato Seed Production Unit at Tumaini National Youth Service, Nyandarua County has the capacity of producing 9,000 tonnes of seedlings  annually, Public Service Youth and Gender Affairs Cabinet Secretary Margaret Kobia has said. The CS said the plant is using aeroponics technology, a rapid seed multiplication technique for producing potato seed with a yield of up to 10 times higher than the traditional method. “The potato project is a joint partnership between National Youth Service (NYS) and Kenya Prisons Service (KPS) whose objective is to increase potato produce in their farms to enable the two institutions cut procurement costs and reduce dependency on the Exchequer,” said Kobia. Kobia noted that NYS and KPS have a combined demand of about 9,000 tonnes of potato per year for consumption by their servicemen and prisoners respectively. “The two agencies currently only produce about 300 tonnes which represents a shortfall of about 8,700 tonnes,” he added. She added that the objective of this project is to meet the shortfall as well as produce surplus for sale to the local community to support Food and Security pillar under the Big Four agenda. The move is also in line with recently assented NYS Bill by President Uhuru Kenyatta seeking to revamp operations at scandal-ridden State agency, Uhuru signed the bill, among others, while ushering the New Year in Mombasa. The NYS Act establishes the agency as a corporate entity, whose functions include the undertaking of commercial activities. According to National Potato Council of Kenya, only Agrico EA, Kisima Farm, GTIL, Stock Man Rozen, Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC) and Kenya Agricultural Livestock Research Organisation (KALRO) are the largest producers of certified potato seed yet the country faces a deficit of 98 per cent of certified seeds. The first aeroponics unit was introduced in Kenya in 2008 by International Potato Centre at the KALRO in Tigoni and later at Genetics Technologies International Limited in Nairobi.