BRIDE: RUTH MUTHONI NDEGWA GROOM: ANTHONY MAINA NG’ANG’A DATE: DECEMBER 15, 2018 VENUE: LILY OF THE VALLEY GARDENS, KIAMBU ROAD PHOTOGRAPHY: SUN AFRICA STUDIOS CAKE: PIQUANT CAKES DÉCOR: CREATIONS BY NALA How did you meet? Anthony: We met the first time in India when she was bringing her brother for a liver transplant. I had gone for a transplant too, my mum was the donor. She gave me 65 per cent of her liver and Ruth gave 67 per cent of her liver to her brother Peter King’ori Ndegwa. Did you begin talking right away? Not really. Actually, I wasn’t hitting on her when we started talking. That came in much later. We first talked on July 4, 2016. I remember the date since it was the day I was discharged. It started as two people brought together by misfortune, and we were just sharing knowledge. She had gotten my number from a mutual friend known as Christine, my childhood friend with whom she was in the same class in USIU, to talk about my condition. The first thing she asked was how I was feeling, and told me of how her brother was suffering from the same condition. At first I thought she didn’t know what she was talking about, but as we talked, I realised she was serious. We met in July when they finally came to India, but it wasn’t until about three to four months later when we started dating. Her brother’s surgery was in August and I came back to Kenya in September. We started seriously dating in November after she returned to Kenya, though while in India, I did take her out on a few dates. How was the proposal? It was on February 14, 2018. We had gone for a date and as I was dropping her off back home, I went down on one knee. When did the wedding plans begin and how challenging or easy was it? They started immediately after the proposal, and it was very challenging in all aspects, financially, and time consuming. Did you involve a committee? We had a group of friends who assisted in managing the wedding planning bit, but as for asking for financial assistance, we didn’t do a fundraiser since I had already done one for medical expenses. So, it was more of assistance from friends who were willing to support, and they did offer that in terms of covering for the food and other forms of support. Your bridal party was interesting, with a groomswoman, shall we say, as part of the team. How did you settle on your line-up? That wasn’t hard; Ruth had a list of friends she always knew would be in her bridal team. As for me, I had several friends who had always been there for me, and they formed the groom’s party. The groomslady is Christine, the childhood friend through whom we met. What was memorable about your wedding? I think everything was memorable. How about disappointing? The DJ played the wrong songs, had no backup generator and made it seem like our fault, even though we had paid. Also, the food was brought in late, so guests started leaving, and this made the event not so lively. Any word of advice to couples planning a wedding? Planning a wedding is not the easiest of things, but the number one rule of thumb is that the wedding is for the woman. The man’s job is to make her happy and fulfil her dream of a colourful wedding. It may be an expensive affair, but don’t let the money make you postpone the wedding. Do everything within your means to make her dream come true, but if it is too expensive, someone who truly loves you will understand and meet you halfway.