Last year, Kenyan artiste Sankale Meringo aka Sanka raised eyebrows when he quit the gospel camp for secular music. He has since released singles such as Waiter Bill Her, Aste Aste and the latest, Rombosa. He speaks candidly to Faith Kyoumukama Eight years in church and strong on gospel music, what made you switch to secular? As you mentioned, I led praise and worship for a long time. I felt like I did not get the appreciation I deserved, especially in terms of income generation. I wanted to be in an environment where I can exercise the freedom of art and in return grow as an individual and an artiste. The transition got people talking and spurred a lot of conversation. How did you manage all the criticism? Of course, I’m human. I also felt different in the beginning, but I couldn’t let people’s opinions distract me from the plans and goals I had planned and outlined quite well. Plus, I got a lot of backing from family and some of my friends and I believed all was going to be well, and surely it has. I am grateful. What exactly would we call your music now? I’m doing commercial music, which is the heart of the music industry. It’s what keeps this industry afloat and alive. And in order for me to grow, I felt I needed to do such kind of music. So, is music your full time career? Yes. I do music full time, mostly focused on the entertainment business as a whole. I also have a company called Sanka Music, which is rolled up in one package including music management. You write your own music. Where do you get the inspiration? I draw my inspirations from real life stories and experiences. Basically, we musicians are emotional creatures. In fact, I’m a really emotional person and that is easily noticeable through my music. I express the topics I choose to tackle in an emotional way that would drive home the point as easily as possible. What are some of the challenges you have faced as an artiste? One of the biggest challenges for an artiste, especially of my stature, is financing the process of producing the music to the point where you are a successful brand. You really have to spend a lot of money. It’s actually not a choice. Another challenge is finding a team of loyalists who would not be there just to benefit themselves from the ‘brand’, but to hold you as you find your way up. In your honest opinion, what do you think is the missing link in the Kenyan music industry? I think the biggest problem is that we don’t have any effective functioning system in the industry. We have no labels or distribution channels that are effective as is the case in the developed economies where music business thrives. But one of the biggest undoing within our industry is the lack of unity and selfishness among the players across the board. Coming together and having one common goal and pursuing it to the very end would really help us map the Kenyan music. In doing that, we would elevate our craft to unprecedented international levels. Are you looking into doing collaborations with other musicians? For now, the idea is to build my brand first. I don’t want it to be dependent on any other brand in terms of value and growth. I want my audience to identify with me fully, then I will be open to working with other artistes later in my career.