Kenya Cup action enters Round 10 Saturday with exciting match line ups, Homeboyz making a long trip in search of points against log leaders and unbeaten log leaders Kabras Sugar at the ASK Kakamega Grounds while the defending champions KCB host Impala at The Den in the Nairobi highlight clash. The Deejays have ended Kabras unbeaten run twice at the same venue, the latest back on February 3 last year where Homeboyz scored five tries to pick a bonus 30-12 win. In an attempt to crush the sugar millers perfect nine-win record, Homeboyz head coach Simon Odongo has recalled their powerhouse and Kenyan International back rower Joshua Chisanga to debut this season. “Chisanga is fit and ready to debut Kabras match. He has recovered from his Repechage knock and has caught up in training, so yes his experience is vital for our hunt on Saturday,” said Odongo. Chisanga returns to the local premier competition having featured for Polish side Orkan Sochaczew last year before returning to Kenya Simbas camp in search of a first World Cup qualification for Kenya. Currently sitting fourth, Homeboyz need a win and hope to move two places up should immediate rivals Mwamba and Nondies suffer home defeats. KCB at the Den in Ruaraka will be looking at keeping Impala at maximum pressure to deny the visitors a chance to cause an upset similar to last seasons final round where on March 3, the Sarries held KCB to a 9-9 stalemate at the same venue. Coming off a comfortable 53-8 win over Strathmore, the Bankers boss Curtis Olago has lined up a solid squad with a quality bench whilst making four necessary changes, two of which bring experience and leadership on board. Olago has given a starting nod to Kenya Simbas and Kenya Sevens skippers Davis Chenge and Jacob Ojee respectively. After an impressive debut last weekend, Davis Chenge comes in to replace Nick Ongeri at second row while Jacob Ojee replaces Stafford Abeka at blind wing. The other two changes will see scrum half Michael Wanjala and his centre Brian Omondi move to the bench paving way for Samuel Asati and his centre Essau Otieno to start. The Sarries on the other hand have lined up new signing from Uganda Saul Kivumbi his debut as Simbas fly half Sammy Oliech returns to man the fullback position. Impala’s head coach Frank Ndong has also reinstated Xavier Kipngetich at fly half to assist scrum half Sampson Onsomu to link playing pods. Other effected changes will see experienced Antony Nyandigisi back at his centre position as Derrick Mayar moves to the blind wing with one forward change to see Davis Makori add his experience in the hunt at front row position. Meanwhile, the eagerly awaited Nakuru Derby will be incepted today at the Nakuru Athletics Club whereby hosts Wanyore will take on new boys Menengai Oilers in an unpredictable clash. Mwamba and Harlequins in Nairobi will play varsity sides Mean Machine and Blak Blad at Ruaraka and K. U grounds respectively in the other fixtures the day. – ALEX NJUE