Sandra Wekesa and Grace Angela @PeopleDailyKe It is 11am at Mbagathi District Hospital, Nairobi’s biggest referral facility under the county government’s management.  Patients referred from smaller health facilities from various estates such as Bahati, Jericho , Buru Buru, Kayole, Makadara and Embakasi are streaming in and the crowd builds up. In a few years, the hospital has been able to transform to a district hospital from a specialised facility dealing with infectious diseases. At a glance, the hospital appears intensely busy; and is the scenario on any typical day. But beneath the crisp, white lab coats worn by doctors and medical officers is a story of pain and desperation, with hundreds of patients crying for medical attention which seems almost elusive at the facility. Seemingly desperate patients brave inordinately long queues, waiting for hours on end to be attended. Some are dozing off, while others are looking up, faces full of hope at every approaching doctor or nurse. Even for those coming in for routine check-ups, the waiting is nerve-wracking. Operations seem to stop temporarily during lunch time, when medics take a meal break. Audrey Lemisi, tries to comfort her baby, who has grown restless in the queue minutes before noon. She narrated to People Daily her experience at the hospital, having had to wait to see a doctor since 8am.  Lemisi adds that, due to financial constraints, she was forced to walk from Kibera to the hospital. “Knowing the big number of people who visit this hospital here, I arrived by 8am to get my baby treated for flu. But today the queue does not seem to be moving,” she says as she adjusts her baby’s position. She revealed she is also worried she might not get drugs in the hospital after seeing a doctor.  “Most are the times we are told to buy medicine from outside even for flu. This is expensive,” says Lemisi. Medics at Mbagathi, who spoke to People Daily in confidence, attributed the long queues to staff shortage, with the few nurses available handling more than 1,000 patients daily. To alleviate patient’s suffering, the medics say they refer them to nearby hospitals. Medical supplies “It really breaks my heart when I see a patient cry in pain, yet there is nothing I can do about it because there is no medicine at the store,” said a nurse who sought anonymity given the sensitivity of the matter. “It is not like we want to keep the patients waiting. It is just that there are very few nurses who have to attend to over 1,000 patients. This is very difficult even for us,” said the medic. Often, not even basic medications such as painkillers are available at Mbagathi. Cases of shortage of medical supplies including laboratory reagents are commonplace. While a few patients can afford  to buy medicine from the private pharmacies, most cannot and are dependent on cheap ones from the hospital. In case of a shortage, they endure the wait. Media reports indicate the drug shortage at the facility  is occasioned by failure by Kenya Medical Supplies Authority (Kemsa) to supply over outstanding debts.  The hospital aslo owes other suppliers. The situation is no different at Riruta Health Centre, where patients wait in queues for doctors to return from lunch break. Even then, not all patients are guaranteed they will be attended to. During the waiting time, cleaners take the ooprtunity to tidy up the facility, with patients asked to wait outside.  Ann Kamau is a victim of the bureaucratic lethargy at the health centre. “I was asked to sit outside for cleaning to take place until 2pm when the doctors come back from lunch break. I still waited for a very long time. The last time I was here, I went home unattended to as they closed at 4pm. I was asked to come early the next day,” she laments. Ann dreads visiting the hospital, but says she has few options.The lengthy waits are not only the problem at the hospital. Patients have to buy health progress books from outside. Violet Wairimu said she is forced to spend extra money to buy the book yet it should be issued free of charge at a public hospital. “A book goes for Sh20. I thought since this is a public hospital such services should be free,” she said.