Zachary Ochuodho @zachuodho Healthcare stakeholders yesterday asked the government to put in place critical legal and institutional framework to support implementation of universal health coverage (UHC) plan. They said for the programme – currently being piloted in four counties – to continue being supported by the government, a coherent and co-ordinated legal framework must be put in place to ensure no government withdraws it just on the basis of lack of funds. Making presentations during a pre-budget hearings forum in Nairobi yesterday, the group petitioned the government to invest more funds on public health, research and development to support the initiative expected to herald the transformation of country’s health sector. “Access to basic health care services should be mandatory irrespective of geographical location or economic status,” they said, adding that some people live far away from health facilities, which makes it difficult to access primary healthcare in good time. Catriona Mumuli, Health Rights Advocacy Forum senior programme officer described access to health services as crucial for maintaining and improving the health of individuals. “Good healthcare system is essential to sustain economic and social development in any country,” she added during the Institute of Economic Affairs organised Pre-Budget Hearings 2019/2020. Currently, UHC is being implemented on a pilot basis in four counties namely; Nyeri, Kisumu, Isiolo and Machakos. The objective of the programme is to provide access to essential healthcare for all Kenyans, lower financial barriers and improve the overall quality of healthcare. It covers mental health, emergency services and non-communicable diseases, while maternal health services, child health services, major infectious diseases and medical and surgical services are being enhanced through the programme. Mumuli also said the government should develop a policy on how health service providers in the private and public sectors can work closely to boost service delivery. She said the government needs to develop human resources for health strategic plan to balance the supply and demand for human resources in the counties and the entire public health sector.“Kenya’s health sector continues to experience inadequate key staff such as doctors and nurses, who are critical in the delivery of health care services,” Mumuli added. She said Kenya has only 17 doctors per 100,000 people who are also distributed unequally across the country where those living in arid and semi-arid areas appear disadvantaged with less staff. International Advocacy Officer for Global Health R&D and Family Planning Budget Advocacy in East Africa, Deutsche Stiftung Weltbevokerung (DSW), Hilda Imali Ngusale, said there is the need for the government to establish strategies for the strengthening of county supply chain management systems. She proposed development of a policy on enhancing co-ordination of disease prevention detection and response to ensure all the stakeholders in the health sector are involved including national and county governments, the private sector and citizens.