Noah Cheploen and Winstone Chiseremi @PeopleDailyKe Amani National Congress (ANC) party leader Musalia Mudavadi on Saturday threatened to call for mass action if President Uhuru Kenyatta fails to dismiss Cabinet secretaries and other top government officials linked to multi-billion-shilling graft cases. Mudavadi urged Uhuru to move with speed and crack the whip on suspects, saying the country was facing an economic meltdown because of corruption and over-borrowing. “The country is hoodwinked with a lot of rhetoric about a make-believe war against corruption. We want to see handcuffs and not hear about handshakes,” he said as he  poured cold water on the Handshake between Uhuru and ODM leader Raila Odinga. Having previously raised the alarm over excessive borrowing,  Mudavadi said his advice had fallen on deaf ears. “But just like pregnancy, you cannot conceal it for long. The Controller of Budget Agnes Odhiambo and Treasury Cabinet secretary Henry Rotich have publicly admitted that we’re in the red,” he said. Speaking on Saturday at Musembe village, Lugari constituency, during the burial of his former personal assistant Henry Maloba, Mudavadi cited  the case of Italian company CMC di Rivanna, which filed for bankruptcy shortly after it was awarded contracts worth Sh100 billion to build three dams in Rift Valley. The company,  declared bankrupt in December, had been awarded tenders for Sh40 billion Itare Dam in Kuresoi, Kimwarer Multipurpose Dam  and Arror Multipurpose Dam at Sh28 billion and Sh38 billion, respectively. “The stillborn Kimwarer and Arror dams sit on land that residents ought to have been compensated. They have not. The contractor has already been paid mobilisation fees! Could anything be more absurd?” he asked. According to the ANC leader, the Italian contractor has already been paid Sh15 billion for the two dams yet work has not started. Mudavadi now wants Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC), Director of Criminal Investigations (DCI) and the Auditor General to act on the matter. “Is it a coincidence that one company was awarded three multi-billion-shilling contracts? Was there financial due diligence during procurement?”  he asked.