PSCU President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, hosted a historic meeting of world leaders on African renaissance as part of celebrations to mark the 400th anniversary of the Trans-Atlantic Slave Trade. A breakfast meeting held on the sidelines of the ongoing 32nd Summit of the African Union Heads of State and Government sought to inspire a global conversation geared towards reconciliation, reengagement and reconnection of all Africans and their descendants across the world. Mobilising Africans The conversation also aims at mobilising African diaspora population in the world to reconnect with their heritage in recognition of its common ancestry. Uhuru said the conversation, in the spirit of Pan-Africanism, aims at producing a new framework for engagement that brings together Africa and its descendants in the Americas, and across the world for the sake of inspiration, investment, collaboration and cooperation. As the world marks the 400th anniversary of the Transatlantic Slave Trade, it is estimated that between 12 and 15 million African slaves were trans-shipped to America of which over four million are reportedly to have died on the high seas. In his remarks, Uhuru said the Afro-conversation is further aimed at renewing ties between Africa and its descendants across the world. He said all Africans have a common cultural heritage and historical experience that all citizens of the continent must understand to have a clearer insight of our desired destination. Besides the brutal conditions that African slaves went through and the millions that lost their lives, Uhuru said  slavery eventually laid the grounds for colonialism, discrimination and racism. Racial superiority “It undermined families and nations, and introduced the damaging and false hierarchy of racial superiority and inferiority that continues to afflict mankind,” the President said. He called for unity of purpose among Africans for the renaissance to succeed and ensure the continent retains its current status as a new frontier of global economic growth and prosperity. “For this upward surge to be sustained for generations to come demands that we be united,” said Uhuru who called for the full participation of the diaspora population towards the new revival and revitalisation of Africa.