Emmanuel Masinde @PeopleSport11 Deputy President William Ruto said that the Jubilee government will continue to support sports affirming that in the next one year all stalled stadia will be completed for it brings honour and pride to the country. Speaking on Saturday as the chief Guest during AK/Lotto National Cross-Country Championships-cum-Trials for World Cross-Country Championships that were held at the Eldoret Sports Club the DP said the government had set up a Reliable Beneficial Fund that will ensure sportsmen and women are well taken care of. “Through the fund, the government will be able to support not only federations but individuals who have talents in various fields of sports,” said Ruto. He also noted that these funds will be used to construct stalled stadia across the country. “Through the fund, we shall make sure that we complete Kipchoge Keino Stadium in Eldoret, Kamariny Stadium in Iten and Kipchoge Stadium in Kapsabet in the next year because as a government we want to make sure that our youths have sufficient infrastructure to nurture their talents,” added the DP. Ruto lauded the Disciplined Forces saying: “The support and facilities that the disciplined forces are giving to our sportsmen and women is commendable and that is why we shall continue to support them as government”. He also announced that the government will allocate 100 slots for athletes during the next national Kenya Police and Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) recruitment exercises. On his part Uasin Gishu county Governor Jackson Mandago said sports tourism is key to the economy of Kenya.  “I urge the government through the Ministry of Tourism to take advantage of such events to ensure that our sportsmen and women have all they need before they travel outside the country and also seek ways to market the country abroad through them,” said Mandago. Athletics Kenya (AK) used the event to select a team that will represent Kenya in the World cross-country championship which will be held in Aarhus, Denmark next month.