The government yesterday launched a National Last Mile Campaign to trace 130,000 students who are yet to join Form One. Education Cabinet secretary Amina Mohamed said she had directed education officials in all counties to map out the 2018 Kenya Certificate of Primary Education exam candidates who became mothers in the course of the year and make special arrangements for them to join Form One. “We have prepared data packets bearing actual names and location of these students with the aim of personalising this last mile exercise right to the individual. We shall leave no child behind. This data will be shared with local administrators who will team up with directors from the ministry in this final push,” said the CS. The data was available and special focus would be paid to the young mothers, Amina said. Ministry officials, she said, would continue filing accurate daily returns on the status of reporting to schools until the 100 per cent transition is attained. Amina said head teachers had been called upon to make available all the vital information to aid the process of ensuring all students are enrolled in secondary schools. Besides, Amina said the ministry had registered 895, 987 students in Form One, representing 87 per cent of those who sat KCPE examination. She said although the enrolment was seven percentage points better than last year, her ministry was determined to do  everything possible to realise 100 per cent transition. The CS said as of last Wednesday, Murang’a county had the highest transition rate at 97 per cent, adding that the majority counties had recorded transition rates above 80 per cent. “We have set 80 per cent as the minimum standard we expect at this point as schools finish the process of uploading their admission details,” she said. Amina spoke at Parklands Arya Girls High School in Nairobi during the launch of the Last Mile Form One Admission Campaign towards 100 per cent transition. She said the government was concerned about the enrolment rate in six counties below 70 per cent. These are Mombasa, Lamu, Kwale, Samburu, Isiolo and Tana River. “This low enrolment is unacceptable at this point in the transition process. These ‘special’ counties will therefore be the ministry’s point of first intensive focus,” said the CS. Amina said last month 70 per cent of the 1,036,220 candidates who sat KCPE exam in 2018 had reported to secondary schools. She said from the current National Education Management Information System (Nemis) data, 640 candidates had opted to repeat Class Eight while 2,299 had joined vocational colleges.