Kinyuru Munuhe @kinyurumunuhe Human rights crusader Caroline Mwatha Ochieng ‘died  from excessive bleeding both internally and externally following a botched abortion procedure, a six-hour autopsy revealed yesterday. Postmortem examination conducted at a private morgue, Umash Funeral Home, revealed Mwatha had a five to six months old male foetus that was badly mutilated through a “medical intervention”. The exercise was conducted by chief government Pathologist Dr Johansen Oduor and Dr Peter Ndegwa from Independent Medico Legal Unit representing the family and detectives from the homicide department. “Caroline died due to excessive bleeding both internally and externally. The male foetus was five to six months old and it was mutiliated. There was a medical intervention. The mark that she had on the thigh was due to embalming,” said Ndegwa. National Coalition of Human Rights Defenders executive director Kamau Ngugi speaking on behalf of the family and lobbyists, said they are satisfied with the results but police should confirm if the botched abortion was voluntary or done when she was unconscious. Postmortem result “We are satisfied with what the police have done to clear on what caused Carol’s death. However, we want them to investigate whether she did it willingly or it was done while she was unconscious,” said Kamau. However, Oduor did not comment. The autopsy results were released as police were allowed to detain two more suspects linked to the death of Mwatha. In another development, Martin Mwangi and Godfrey Otieno, who were believed to have been the driver of the vehicle used to deliver the deceased’s body to the City Mortuary, were arrested on Wednesday at Dandora and detained at Buru Buru Police Station overnight. At the same time, police have put a clinic in Dandora linked to the death of  Mwatha under 24-hour surveillance. Residents said  the clinic, which operates 24 hours a day, seven days a week, was closed for the first on Sunday and was painted afresh, perhaps to conceal its name ‘New Njiru Community Centre’.