Flower industry players are optimistic 50 per cent of the annual total sales will be realised during today’s Valentine’s Day. Kenya Flower Council (KFC) chief executive officer Clement Tulezi said good promotional campaigns locally and internationally should help the industry achieve this target. “We are optimistic that flower producers and vendors will be able to meet the target during today’s valentine’s day. Valentine’s Day always determine the performance of the entire year,” he said. Tulezi said an aggressive marketing promotion is being fast-tracked in US, Japan, India, United Arab Emirates (UAE), Turkey, Russia and Australia.  However, there were mixed expectations across the country as the World marks the day for lovers, with for instance, hundreds of flower farm workers in Naivasha not smiling due to rising cases of job losses. In the last three years, over 6,000 workers have lost their jobs with fears that the numbers could rise in the coming months due to the harsh economic times. Flower farm owners have pointed to a poor market, high cost of labour, rise in electricity charges and punitive and double taxes for the loss of jobs. The mood in Mombasa town, yesterday was blissful as lovers flocked different shopping malls to do last minute shopping for Valentines’ Day gifts. Different centres at the famous Macknon Market and Budget supermarket on Digo road were stocked with a wide variety of accessories ranging from flowers, cards, photo frames branded with love messages to chocolates. Flower volumes There were also the boutiques at the Mombasa central business and Kongowea Market that displayed clothing designs bearing Valentine’s Day theme colours of red. Tulezi noted that in the recent past, flower volumes have been increasing, an indication that lovers will have a lot to buy. Performance of the sub-sector, he added, looks bright in the current production year despite the prevailing challenges and competition. “In 2018, the entire horticulture industry was hit hard by acute shortage of soluble fertiliser resulting from stringent and lengthy clearance process by Kenya Bureau of Standards at the port of entry,” he said. The sector, Tulezi added, was also hit by the imposition of 16 per cent Value Added Tax (VAT) on pest control products and Sh3.5 billion VAT returns from 2013, increasing the cost of production, resulting in non-competitiveness in the international markets. He said these challenges have compounded problems such as numerous taxes and levies at national and county governments, high energy costs and trade and phytosanitary restrictions in several potential markets. A spot check by People Daily revealed that flowers in local outlets and vendors’ stands have increased between 20 per cent and 200 per cent for bunch. A bunch of flowers is going for between Sh300 and Sh500 from Sh250 last year as demand for roses increase ahead of the Valentine’s Day. Peter Kiiru, a flower vendor at City Market confirmed that prices have gone up and are likely to increase further today given the expected demand by lovebirds. Additional reporting by Kirera Mwiti and Harrison Kivisu.