The High Court yesterday set aside a two-year jail term imposed on former Nominated Senator Joy Gwendo for stealing Sh1.7 million. Justice John Onyiego said the trial court erred in sentencing her to jail without the option of a fine, adding that the High Court has powers to review the sentence. “It was wrong for the trial magistrate to impose a jail term without the option of a fine,” ruled the judge. Gwendo will be sentenced  afresh on March 4.  The court also considered the fact that in a plea bargain, which she failed to honour, there was no provision for compensation. Abuse of office Gwendo was handed the two-year jail term by Chief Magistrate Douglas Ogoti on December 7 after she was found guilty of abuse of office and fraud. The judge said it was wrong for Ogoti not to state reasons for failing to give her the option of a fine. “To that extent, I agree with the applicant the court erred,” the judge said. In its ruling, the court ordered that she be jailed without the option of a fine because of “hoodwinking the court”. Ogoti also found that Gwendo had failed to honour the agreement and he described her as a dishonest person . “It is noteworthy that she executed a plea bargaining agreement yet she was sure that she could not honour the same. She was hoodwinking the court and therefore lied to the court,” ruled Ogoti. The politician had been charged with five counts including abuse of office, issuing bad cheques and stealing.  In a plea agreement, Gwendo agreed to pay the amount in four instalments. She was accused accused of forging a Sh200,000 cheque drawn from a Kenya Commercial Bank account in favour of Kivuli Development Initiative and signed by Willy Kipkorior Bett. In her mitigation, Gwendo  said she was remorseful which is why she opted for the plea bargaining. According to the charge sheet filed in court it stated that on October 23, 2016 at Chinga Parish in Kisumu East, Gwendo used her position as a State officer to confer herself a benefit of Sh2,226,800, the property of Kisumu East Cotton Growers Cooperative Society through Kivuli Development Initiative.