Mombasa county government plans to spend Sh10.1 billion on payment of salaries and allowances in the 2019/2020 financial year according to a draft fiscal strategy that has caused uproar among residents and civil society groups. The county expects revenue will increase from Sh13.5 billion in the current financial year  to Sh 14.6 billion. Sh10.6 billion of the estimated revenue will come from the exchequer while Sh 4 billion will be collected from local revenue sources. Out of the proposed recurrent expenditure, personnel emoluments kitty will get the highest allocation of Sh 5.5 billion. Salaries and allowances for doctors, nurses and other health service providers will get the highest allocation of Sh 2.2 billion. Employees in the finance and economic department will get Sh 650 million. The county will spend about Sh 4.4 billion on development. A big chunk of the development funds estimated at Sh. 873 million will go towards improvement of infrastructure followed by finance and economic planning which will be allocated about Sh 640 million. However, civil society groups have opposed the draft fiscal strategy paper saying residents were left out in identifying priority projects. Governor Hassan Joho was criticised for spending over three quarters of county annual budget on wage bills at the expense of development projects. The civil society groups which included Muslims for Human Rights (Muhuri), Mombasa Governance Network as well as a section of residents blamed Joho of having his “priorities upside down” by allocating “too little to development.” Speaking during draft fiscal strategy paper forum at Tononoka hall, Mombasa Governance Network leader Zedekiah Bika wondered why the county’s recurrent expenditure had continued to grow instead of prioritising spending on development projects. “We need to seek more than half of the county revenue being allocated to development but not paying salaries and allowances,” Bika said. He said it will be difficult for the county to achieve meaningful growth if most of its revenue is spent on paying salaries and allowances to employees. County assembly has been allocated Sh 683 million with half of the allocation going towards payment of salaries of the members of county assembly and staff while the lest will go towards operations and maintenance of the assembly.