Mukalo Kwayera @kwayeram Until last February, Deputy President William Ruto was the man to beat—or so it was presumed—in the 2022 presidential race. But this has suddenly changed. A myriad of anthills have sprung up in his way with money, deceit, old-boys-network, constitutional and electoral reforms emerging as factors likely to dictate the direction and outcome of what promises to be a battle of titans in the 2022 poll. The watershed to the changing political realities is the March 9 Handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga—and with it followed a quick succession of events that dramatically altered (or is it scarred?) the political landscape for Ruto in what appeared to be plot to edge him out of the race. The recent expanding of Interior Cabinet secretary Fred Matiang’i’s portfolio to an equivallent of ‘Chief Minister’ through an Executive Order has further complicated matters for Ruto whose role and visibility appear destined to diminish. Consequently, Ruto’s is a case of so near yet so far as he now finds himself having to staggeringly dodge a series of sustained brickbats, jumping over anthills and warding off political headwinds. Referendum agenda If anything, Ruto’s courtiers have given the impression of a loyal and dedicated servant under siege while on the other hand, he himself evinces the posture of a confident and shrewd figure greatly sinned against. Raila’s joining the government side, from where he and Uhuru launched a Building Bridges Initiative, which is driving a referendum agenda to ostensibly expand the Executive is seen by Ruto allies as a plot to edge him out of the race to succeed his boss, Uhuru. That Raila occupies a central position in the government and limelight Ruto previously enjoyed is no longer a matter of conjecture. And this is causing jitters for the DP, who has fervently backed Uhuru’s election since 2013. The former Central Province and upper Eastern regions were until recently seen as a ripe crop ready for Ruto to harvest owing to the hitherto strong chemistry between him and the Head of State. However, the events unfolding from that area no longer point to that impression as they now toast a different ball game altogether. What then do the confounding scenarios mean for Ruto? Analysts envisage that Ruto’s bid is, from time to time, bound to be confronted by heavy headwinds in the countdown to 2022. On one hand is the now controversy-riddled Handshake. On the other hand is a lurking threat from potential Ruto competitors—former Deputy Prime Minister Musalia Mudavadi and  Baringo Senator Gideon Moi—all that are offshoots of the Handshake knitted in the old-boys-network. Unfolding events signal to the holding of a referendum next year to create a parliamentary system of governance and the possible formation of a coalition involving Mudavadi, Gideon and, possibly Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka. However, Westland’s MP Tim Wanyonyi argues that it is too early to predict how the 2022 presidential race will be. “Unfortunately,  Ruto is competing against himself. There is still a long way to go. We are likely to have a referendum that will change the political system. That would mean fresh re-alignments and coalitions of willing partners,” he told People Daily. Political analyst Joseph Kimau, observes that whichever political formations emerge now have to, singularly or collectively, contend with Ruto’s political muscle and never-say-die fighting spirit. “Ruto is far ahead of his would-be challengers. As a heir apparent, he is a visible and smart campaigner, which gives him an edge,” he says. Opposition turfs Malava MP Moses Injendi does not give any of Ruto’s rivals a chance  when the next elections finally come. He says while the Opposition is still struggling to wriggle itself out of the aftershocks of the Handshake, Ruto is not taking any chances as he has continued to flex muscles further and continually fill his arsenal with more political ammunition. “The DP has been to every part of Kenya marketing the Jubilee development agenda and, by extension, himself. In the process, he has established himself as Uhuru’s undisputed successor. Yet the fellows in the Opposition are still grumbling about petty issues. That is the difference,” he says. As if not sure of the support he might garner from the seemingly wavering central Kenya, Ruto has moved swiftly to take advantage of the disarray within the ranks of his would-be competitors to cast his fishing net wider and deeper into the previously Opposition turfs. Exploits and explorations of Ruto are upped by his enviable financial abilities. Whether Ruto remains the presidential race front-runner till 2022 remains to be seen. But what is clear at the moment is that he is walking a tightrope with the political environment around him littered with spikes and labyrinths of all types and sizes.