Alvin Mwangi and Sophie Njoka @PeopleDailyKe Nurses will remain on strike until the government honours the return-to-work agreement signed last November. Kenya National Union of Nurses (Knun) secretary general Seth Panyako said they will not honour a court order obtained by the Council of Governors suspending the industrial action. The court on Tuesday suspended the strike which is on its 4th day today directing nurses and their employers to attend conciliation meetings initiated by Labour Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yattani last week. Yattani formed a committee to look into issues raised by the nurses and is expected to file a report in 30 days. And last evening, a joint statement by the Health CS Sicily Kariuki and CoG chair Wycliffe Oparanya urged the nurses to return to work to allow the conciliatory process. “The county governments and the ministry are asking all nurses to immediately report back to work in compliance with the court order and allow the conciliation process to complete without interference,” they said. But the union has since ruled out calls for negotiation arguing that the government is already aware of issues at hand. “We are not going to settle for anything less, nurses are demanding for the full implementation of the return-to-work formula,” Panyako said. He urged the government to instead call for talks on full implementation of Collective Bargaining Agreement, grading structure of nurses and solution to government human resource problems. Since the strike kicked off on Monday, several county governments have managed to strike deals with the nurses with most of them committing to pay the allowances by the end of the month. Only Mombasa, Migori and Machakos have fully paid the return-to-work formula. Kiambu, Nyandarua, Kwale, Tharaka Nithi, and Vihiga are some of the counties that have struck an agreement as Nairobi County government entered into a deal with nurses on Tuesday evening. Meanwhile, nurses working in public hospitals in Mombasa county have announced plans to join the strike after the government allegedly reneged on an earlier agreement to pay their allowances.