It seems like Kenyan socialite Huddah Monroe aka The Boss Lady is in love, again! The speculation emerged after a video of her receiving what looked like a Valentine’s Day gift from US-based Kenyan entertainer DJ Fully Focus went viral. The two could be warming to each other; as it has also emerged that Huddah will host Focus’ farewell party at Chateau Nightclub in Las Vegas on March 2. The talk about the two being an item has been doing rounds in the recent past, especially after the duo was spotted hanging together and getting cozy at a number of gigs in Kenya. This was during Focus’ recent visit to 254, where he hosted a series of events in the African debut edition of Passport Experience Festival (PXP Fest) in Nairobi. Huddah’s response to the rumours was via a profane post on her social media pages alluding that all she “loved” was an “ambitious, intelligent and rich” man. In September last year, Huddah shared on social media, a photo of a man she captioned “mine”. However, she had covered the man’s face leaving many people guessing. So, could that man be DJ Fully Focus? “I’ve been in a relationship for 1 year. Good God. I never thought I’d be with the same man for this long. Now I want to leave him but it’s hard as hell. Coz emotions are involved. Can all you feel me? I’m scared of commitment…I see and smell this man is my future. My heart wants him so bad. But my mind is telling me NO! There’s a better shark in the sea (sic),” she wrote in a previous post. About DJ Fully Focus Over the past 15 years, Fully Focus has grown to become one of the best and most versatile deejays in the world. He’s played in five continents for hundreds of thousands at concerts, festivals and his own headlined world tours. His radio experience as a mixer and on-air personality helped him launch his popular Midweek Motivation mixshow on Soundcloud that reached one million plays. More recently, he collaborated with EDM hit makers Major Lazer for two popular Afrobeat mixtapes Africa Is The Future and Africa Now that landed him two radio shows on Grammy Award winner Diplo’s channel on Sirius XM. Focus is also the creator of Atlanta’s first multi-cultural music festival PXP Fest that showcases the best of different genres including but not limited to Afro-beat, soca, dancehall, hip hop, reggaeton and EDM. He owns and produces PXP Fest with business partners Akon and Chaka Zulu, co-founder of DTP Records; PXP has also been successfully showcased in SXSW, Los Angeles, New York and now has a monthly residency in Las Vegas at the Chateau rooftop inside Paris Casino. As a performer, he has shared the stage with some of the biggest names in entertainment such as Usher, Sean Paul, Wizkid, Steve Aoki, Rick Ross, Shaggy, Davido, Machel Montano, Future, T.I and Tiwa Savage.