I have always highlighted issues covering a wide scope of injuries that both professional and amateur athletes experience. In today’s article I would like to highlight a simple difference which I have witnessed with many people asking me about. This is about the above mentioned title which to many people may sound obvious and yet to others may sound hard. Quite often individuals participating in all manner of sporting activities from time to time sustain a strain, sprain or contusion injury, they however may not tell the difference, it is in this regard that I would like to briefly highlight their differences. Strains, sprains, and contusions are all similar soft tissue injuries. A strain is also often referred to as a pulled muscle; it is an injury to a muscle or a tendon (the tissue that connects muscle to bone for exa,ple  on the hamstring). A sprain is an injury to a ligament (the tissue that connects bones to other bones for example on the ankle). A contusion is a bruise that causes bleeding underneath the skin without breaking the skin; it occurs as a result of a direct blow on the muscle. Any of these three injuries are usually caused during a particular event such as an accident or an injury while performing sports or other strenuous activities. In some cases, the strain, sprain, or contusion can be a result of overuse or misuse. If you are engaging in the same repetitive acts, but are not performing them correctly, the result could be the gradual onset of a strain, sprain, or contusion. All three injuries are usually painful. Strains and sprains also can often prevent you from being able to move the affected area and often cause swelling. Contusions are usually less serious, but if you have bruising that is preventing you from moving that area, you should see a sports medicine expert. Only these experts can determine if the contusion is part of a larger problem that could be much more serious. Treatment for sprained ankles, strained leg muscles, and bruised feet is something that we are familiar with in our daily lives. We have a high rate of success treating these soft tissue injuries with rest, icing, compression, and elevation. It is the most common technique used along with over the counter pain medications for example ibuprofen. If the pain or swelling still persists, the treating specialist might prescribe anti-inflammatory medications and a stronger pain reliever. Patience is very important, especially when treating sprained ankles and strains, because they can take a couple of months to heal. Inactivity during this time is very important so as not to further injure the area or make the original injury worse. In some cases, a cast or walking boot might be necessary as determined by your doctor. – The writer is a physiotherapist with Kenyan Premier League (KPL) side Mathare United