Lilian Kaivilu @liliankaivilu Josephine Syombua Salee limps slowly towards her main house in Kavindu village, Nuu area in Kitui county. A white prosthetic leg is the first thing I notice on her as she bends slowly to pick up a broom from her two-roomed house. This is the mark of a venomous snakebite that Syombua bears since July 11, 2015. Four years later, the 36-year-old is still living with the consequences of what she terms as a near-death experience. Following the snakebite, the mother of three was admitted at the Mwingi Level 4 Hospital for three months, accumulating a medical bill of Sh30,000. “We were in the farm with other community and family members harvesting when I was bitten by a snake. I immediately lost consciousness, only to wake up in the hospital two weeks later. Leg amputated The  snakebite changed Syombua’s life as she ended up with an amputated leg. Her case is just one among the 400,000 people across the world who remain with permanent disabilities every year as a result of snakebites, according to the World Health Organisation (WHO). “When I woke up for the first time in the hospital, I was given a form to sign, consenting to the amputation of my leg,” Syombua remembers. “Niliamua nikatwe mguu badala ya kupoteza maisha (I chose to have my leg amputated rather than lose my life.)” Today, the mother of three says she cannot walk as fast as she used to,  cannot do farm jobs and depends on her husband for upkeep. In the larger Nuu ward at least one case of snakebite is reported every week during the rainy seasons. Saturdays are the busiest days at the Nuu Sub-County Hospital. On this particular day, Nduki Munzyu, 30, joins the queue at the facility’s waiting area. She has brought her 14-year-old-daughter for a regular check-up. The teenager has already missed school the last one week due to some pain from the wound on her left leg. Nduki’s daughter was bitten by a venomous snake as she walked home from a relative’s place on the night of May 26, last year. Drugs shortage Joseph Mbithi Maundu, a clinical officer at the Nuu Sub-County Hospital says children under 15 years are the most affected by snakebites. Majority of the patients, he adds, are bitten at night. “This means that they report in the hospital at night when there are no adequate staff. This is a challenge because we only have two clinical officers at this health facility.” He cites stockouts of the antivenom as another challenge, a situation that forces them to refer the patients to Mwingi Level 4 Hospital. Maundu narrates how they lost a patient due to lack of antivenom at the facility. “In January, 2018, we received a patient who had suffered a snakebite. Unfortunately we did not have antivenom in our facility, we thus referred the patient to Mwingi Level 4 hospital. The family took the patient to a traditional healer and that is how the patient succumbed to the fast spreading venom.” Besides the challenge of antivenom stockouts, Maundu cites religious beliefs by some local sects as a challenge to treating not only snakebites but also other diseases. “Kavonokya (a religious sect) members do not believe in taking medicine, even in the case of snakebite. In such cases, all we can do is sign the ‘Against Medical Advice form’ to indicate that the patient refused medication,” he says. Hezekiah Ondiko, head of heath commodities and technology division in Kitui says the county receives antivenom every quarter from the Kenya Medical Supplies Agency (Kemsa). He, however, revealed that there is slow uptake of the drug because of resistance from some patients. “We procured 70 vials for each of the big hospitals (Kitui County Referral Hospital and the Mwingi Level 4 Hospital),” said Ondiko. Depending on the type of snake that bites a patient, a patient can use upto two vials of the snake antivenom. Each vial costs Sh5,800. According to Ondiko, puff udders and cobras are the most common snakes in the region and children and men are the most affected. Although snakebites are mainly recorded in poor homes, Ondiko says the county has set up waiver committees in the hospital to intervene when patients cannot raise the bill.