When it rains, it pours. Nowhere this is true at the moment than at AFC Leopards.  Ingwe’s woes in the SportPesa Premier League (SPL) worsened when they fell 2-1 to struggling Mount Kenya United at Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos yesterday just three days after losing 4-1 to Bandari. The match may have come too early for new coach Andrew Casa Mbungo, who was hired on Tuesday, but it gave him a glimpse of just how difficult it is going to be to turn around Leopards’ fortunes. Former Leopards player Timona Wanyonyi and Peter Amani were Ingwe’s tormentors in Machakos with Abdallah Shittu scoring the consolation. It is a second straight victory for Mt Kenya following last weekend’s shock win over leaders Mathare United and they have now moved off the bottom of the 18-team standings to occupy 16th position with nine points, just one behind Leopards. For Leopards, it is loss number five and they now have the unwanted record of having less points (10) than the number of games they have played (11) and a negative goal difference, having scored 10 while conceding 16. While Leopards quickly head south, bitter rivals Gor Mahia are going up and helped their course by beating Vihiga United 1-0 in Kakamega yesterday. The former Zoo FC hit-man Nicholas Kipkirui headed home Samuel Onyango’s delicious cross to give Gor the lead in the 44th minute and the reigning champions stayed tight at the back to claim all points to move to third on the log with 19 points, five behind Mathare and still with a game in hand over the league leaders ahead of Saturday’s ‘Mashemeji’ derby against Leopards. “The problem with my team has been finishing which has become a great concern as we created chances but failed to utilise. It is one area we want to work on before our next match,’’ said Vihiga coach Mike Mururi. Meanwhile, Western Stima ended their three-game winless run by beating Zoo FC 1-0 to move to fourth on the table. Stima, who had drawn their last two games, had Johanna Mwita to thank for the three points as he pounced onto a loose ball to score in the 61st minute. Meanwhile, Sofapaka will be seeking a fourth straight win when they take on Nzoia Sugar while Mathare hope to bounce back to winning ways against Sony Sugar today with six matches lined up. But perhaps the highlight of the day is the encounter between Bandari and Tusker FC in Ruaraka with both teams having title ambitions. Reports by Charles Thuku, Fred Likuyani and Viden Ochieng