George Kebaso @Morarak Jetlak Food Limited, the company that manufacturer Nuteez Peanut butter that was last week reported to have high afloxin levels, is now accusing the Government Chemist of sabotage. The company has raised questions on the manner in which a public health concern on one of its products was communicated by a government agency, attracting suspicion of possible sabotage. Reacting to the leakage of a Government Chemist sample analysis report on the social media and the subsequent ban by the Ministry of Health on Nuteez peanut butter, the company through its lawyer has said it leaves a lot to be desired. Lawyer Kelvin Mogeni on behalf of Jetlak Foods Limited said the company has not yet ascertained the authenticity of the sample tested, purported to have been obtained in Kapsabet and not from the company. “We have, however, reached out to the Director of Public Health with regard to this and we have invited his team to collect samples from our factory for testing and the results be released as soon as possible,” Mogeni said. On Thursday, when the Government Chemist report leaked, Public Health directorate quickly ordered removal of all Nuteez peanut butter from the market pending further investigations. In a certificate of analysis circulated on Thursday, the government chemist said the product has aflatoxin margins exceeding 10 units by an additional 14.1 units to unimaginable levels. The agency declared it not fit for human consumption, and, therefore, required action to be taken immediately. In a quick response, director of Public Health Kepha Ombacho directed that shops discard the product and all other batches of the same sampled and submitted to the laboratory for analysis. But on Friday, the company’s managing director Anup Bid said he had not received any official communication from the government, more than 24 hours after the certificate of analysis started doing rounds on social media. Despite inviting the authorities to the factory premises in Ruiru to test its products, Bid said the manner in which the situation was handled was proper. Further test For now the company is relying on the outcome of further tests with hopes it would be exonerated from the allegations. Ombacho further directed a scale up of surveillance on compliance of all foodstuff to the relevant food safety standards and regulations. “This should be sustained across the country,” he added in a circular to newsrooms last week. In an interview with People Daily, Ombacho said the analysis by the Government Chemist is a routine exercise by the authorities to ascertain that foodstuff consumed by Kenyans are safe. Consumer Federation of Kenya (Cofek), in reaction to the Government Chemist report, asked consumers to boycott the product in question. “Accordingly, we have activated the #CofekRedAlert on the product and urge consumers to avoid the product, exercise extreme discretion if they must use the Nuteez Peanut Butter as it could occasion serious health implications,” Cofek secretary general, Stephen Mutoro said. Attempts to reach the Kenya Bureau of Standards (Kebs) for comment failed to bear fruit as calls to the acting managing director Phoebe Gituku went unanswered.