There’s new vibe in town, as young artistes in 254 set up new music algorithms and cultures that consumers are gravitating to, as Alfayo Onyango and Grace Wachira explore The #PlayKenyanMusicKe campaign started a few weeks ago with Kenyans On Twitter (KOT) putting the media on the spot for supporting music from across the border more than the homegrown content. As the debate unfolded, the issue of some artistes not doing due diligence when producing music came to the fore. A few budding musicians were trolled for coming up with mediocre content that consumers could not stomach. “Lamba Lolo is at three million views…. Ati hakuna content Kenya?’’ read an Instagram post by Hype Fest founder and artiste and events promoter Kitawi Mwakitele. His argument intimating there was strength in numbers dismissed claims being peddled around of Kenyan content being ‘denied’ appropriate support. In hindsight, Kenya’s most popular songs in the last year and most recent times in regard to numbers in exclusion to Sauti Sol and Nyashinski all have a consistent theme. For instance, New Position by Ethic ft Kansoul (2.7 million YouTube views), Kirimino by Nellythegoon ft Dmore (788,000 YouTube views), Sponyo by Gwaash ft Jung Retro and Young (348,000 YouTube views) and Dundaing by King Kaka ft Kristoff and Magix Enga (2.1 million YouTube views). And it is laudable that with no label backing or financial support, videos by upcoming acts such as Boondocks Gang on the song Rieng have amassed over 145,000 YouTube views in a month. What’s the nucleus of these entertainers music? Is it about the vocalisation, normalisation or perversion? Or is it just glorification of vices in the form of entertainment? Lewd content Dan ‘Chizi’ Aceda, a seasoned musician behind the hit Sanasana, feels there is nothing wrong with the kind of music some of these budding artistes are penning. “I mean, we, and by we I mean us guys who have been in this game for quite some time, understand where these budding artistes are. We started somewhere and unfortunately for these guys, we live in the full glare of the Internet, so their work, good or bad, will forever be found there,” he told Spice, adding that all artistes have music they were not proud of. “I can’t even showcase my first song. It was just terrible, but no one got to hear it, luckily,” he intimates. Aceda says a group such as Ethic posses something that cannot be taught in a class. “These guys have passion and you cannot teach passion. You can teach how to write music and how to produce, but the zeal to translate that musically is in born,” he says. While society may condemn the kind of music being churned out by these artistes mostly still in their teenage years, it is important to note that they are a mirror effect of their predecessors. “These guys are only singing what they have listened to previously. Some foreign music is vulgar and it is what we play in Kenya, so why wouldn’t they want to do the same kind of music?” Aceda poses. The producers Decimal Records co-director and legendary music producer Eric Musyoka looks at the new genre as a sub-genre of genge and kapuka. “It borrows heavily from dancehall music. Both kapuka and genge are heavily influenced by dancehall music and this is a good thing; it is creativity. It’s the modern sound of a different generation,” he explains. Musyoka, having worked with notable music names such as Kalamashaka (at Homeboyz), Nonini and P-Unit, notes that each generation has its own form of expression that an older generation might find difficult to relate to. He says that he enjoyed Michael Jackson in the years gone by, but he is now enjoying Drake and Arianna Grande. “Music is a subjective matter and everyone has their own preferences and tastes. You hardly hear Western audiences comparing music quality between one generation and another,” he notes. “I enjoyed Kalamashaka and I thoroughly enjoy Khaligraph Jones and King Kaka! I have worked with three generations of musicians and each generation has its hits and misses both in technical and creative quality,” he says. He thinks that the main reason audiences are plagued by this comparison mentality is because of the disconnect in audiences from generation to generation and isolation of audiences along social and economic classes. He says, “Therefore, music is rarely enjoyed as a social medium across generations. The entire publishing industry in the USA thrives on sampling, which was once shunned and is now appreciated because besides being a lucrative business when it comes to licensing, it also serves as form of reliving songs that one enjoyed at that time.” Ease of accessibility But is it that music has become too accessible and affordable? “Unfortunately for us, we did not get to produce music with all this technology around us. But even then, when we got our hands on a computer, my goodness, we did stuff! We made music. And we still are, but nowadays, the technology to produce content is all around us. We have phones that can record videos and audios and laptops that we carry around with all the editing suites in them,” says Aceda, adding that was why the young and tech-savvy generation of artistes could easily upload their music on the Internet and it would easily garner views from varied platforms because it appeals to its target audience. That said, Musyoka adds that to a certain extent, producers run the show and they are involved in every aspect of the production process. He says: “Depending on the resources available and also the producer’s skill set, producers can indeed chip in. In most cases, the role of the producer is to vet the composition and lyrical content. So, yes; producers do have a say in most cases, since they guide and create the end product.”