Seth Onyango and Kirera Mwiti @PeopleDailyKe Chief Justice David Maraga yesterday moved to defuse tension between the Judiciary, the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions and investigative agencies. This follows attacks on the Judiciary over its handling of corruption cases with investigative agencies and the DPP branding it the weak link in the fight against graft. But in what appears to be a fire-fighting mission, the CJ yesterday chaired a National Council on Administration of Justice (NCAJ) 20th full Council meeting in Naivasha to foster synergy among players in the criminal justice system. During a brief open session, Maraga promised the discussion would be candid. “We need to have an open and honest discussion on how to deal with the issues in the commercial justice system and criminal justice sector relating to corruption,” he said. He acknowledged what he identified as perennial challenges, especially the delays in hearing of cases. Those present were the Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet, Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti, Attorney General Paul Kihara and the Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji. Also present were EACC chief executive Twalib Mbarak, Law Society of Kenya president Allen Gichuru and Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission’s Abdi Guliye. After the meeting, NCAJ council resolved to work together to fight corruption. Registrar of the Judiciary Anne Amadi said they had agreed to collaborate for speedy resolution of graft-related cases. “In order to achieve the desired results in the administration of justice, particularly in the fight against corruption, we undertake to carry out our respective duties through a collaborative approach that promotes synergies and accelerates efficiency in the delivery of services to Kenyans,” she said. Sources privy to the discussions told People Daily that Maraga was hard pressed to explain claims of judicial leniency towards graft suspects. Both Kinoti and Haji have  accused the Judiciary of giving   corruption suspects lenient bail terms and issuing orders that frustrate graft cases. But even as the Judiciary is blamed for slow progress in the war against graft, some read mischief in the claims. Some observers see the attacks as part of a campaign to punish the  Judiciary for nullifying the 2017 presidential election results. President Uhuru Kenyatta, who had been declared the winner and other Jubilee leaders, had accused the Judiciary of bias and promised to “revisit” the matter. The arrest of Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu in August last year over corruption and misuse of office claims was seen by the opposition as part of the retribution.