Nairobi, Tuesday @PeopleSports11 The return of East Africa’s Safari Rally to the World Rally Championship (WRC) still occupies the mind of FIA (International Automobile Federation) president Jean Todt who wants “a global championship” by staging rounds in continents that are not on the calendar. “I want rallies in Europe where the history of rallying started but I want to go to every part of the world. Latin America, Asia. I want to go back to Africa and we’re working on that and the Middle East. That’s what we want to achieve,” Todt was recently quoted saying by ‘Motorsport News.’ But Todt says the WRC “cannot host 20 rallies, we need to find criteria.” His proposal is for more cross-border rallies as a way of easing the WRC calendar congestion. Established rounds are coming under threat from events like the Safari and Rally Japan, both of which are expected to join the WRC next year at the expense of European events. The first two rounds of the season are currently shared, between Monte Carlo and France on round one and Sweden and Norway on round two. “What I wish does not always happen, but I feel we should have some sort of creativity with rallies covering more than one country. This could help settle this question of European calendar,” added Todt. Kenya and Japan will both run “candidate” rallies this season and are expected to be included if they go successfully. Kenya’s “candidate” event will be this year’s Safari Rally which will take place on July 4-6 and work on the organisation is going on, albeit with difficulties, mainly funding. Kenya’s bid to have the Safari Rally back on the WRC is on an off-and-on hype and with no less than the country’s President Uhuru Kenyatta engaging Todt and Kenyans and assuring both that it is a “national project” to, among other, publicise the country boosting tourism and trade relations with the rest of the world.’ But government financial guarantee remains just a promise. All aspects of the “candidate” event preparations and the whole WRC Safari Rally Project are severely hampered by lack of promised state funds and equipment at the project headquarters that Todt commissioned last year. At the time, Todt was convinced that with President Kenyatta’s support and that of chiefs in the corporate world that he met, Kenya was capable of putting up a rally organisation that would meet WRC approval. However, with no money forthcoming from any source at the moment, the Safari Rally Project headquarters is barely managing to prepare a rally course for the forthcoming “candidate” event as well as long time preparations of the a 2020 WRC Safari Rally event should the country be successful in its bid. -VOICE OF SPORT