Mercy Mwai @wangumarci Deputy President William Ruto will pay market rate for the land on which Weston Hotel sits, the National Land Commission (NLC) said yesterday. NLC also denied claims it had favoured Ruto in the probe on the land’s long-running ownership dispute between Weston and the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority (KCAA). Outgoing commission vice chair Abigael Mbagaya said the decision was done “without fear, favour or any form of contradiction”. Last year, a report by Zenith Management Valuers Ltd estimated the land measuring 0.773ha opposite Wilson Airport, on Lang’ata Road, Nairobi, at Sh300 million. Speaking yesterday when she appeared before the National Assembly’s Lands committee chaired by Kitui South MP Rachael Nyamai, Mbagaya said the amount of money Ruto will pay for the land will soon be made public. She said the cost has been pegged on an open market value to ensure taxpayers are not defrauded.  “The evaluation has been done and the final report is on my desk. We are doing an open market value because we are making sure that the people of Kenyan don’t lose,” she said. Accompanied by other NLC officials, Mbagaya defended the commission’s decision to spare Weston Hotel demolition, saying other ways of resolving land disputes should be explored. “We can’t demolish every building. We must look for alternatives. Every land case is going to be treated on its own merit and that is what we are doing right now,” she said. She said the Historical Injustice Act provides for restitution, restoration, compensation and apology as ways of addressing such cases. “In other words one can be told sorry and that is enough for you to deal with historical injustices cases. We are, however, exploring different ways of how to address issues of historical land injustices,” she said. Mbagaya sought to explain why other big buildings including Taj Mall and South Mall, were demolished last year. She said Taj Mall was demolished because the owner, who legally owned part of the land, had illegally acquired an adjacent piece which was part of a road reserve and amalgamated the two parcels. In the case of South Mall, she said it was brought down because it was built on riparian land which is public land and is not available for allocation. She said the South Mall building was built on top of a river, which caused blockages and flooding and the only solution was to demolish it. She also gave the example of buildings at Upper Hill Nairobi which, she said, were built on Kenya Railways land but whose demolition would affect many Kenyans. Speaking on BBC’s HardTalk last week, Ruto acknowledged that the Weston Hotel land had been illegally acquired by the original owner, from whom he bought it. “For the record, the National Land Commission has made a finding that Weston was an innocent purchaser for value from somebody who got it illegally and reparations have been made constitutionally to restore the land to Kenya Civil Aviation Authority. Those who sold the land to us must pay,” he told BBC’s Stephen Sackur. He said he had followed due processes while acquiring the land and accused the sellers of tricking him into buying property which they knew was fraudulently acquired. KCAA has rejected the compensation offer saying the four-star hotel must be brought down because it compromises safety of flights. The authority said buildings near airports should not be taller than two storeys. Weston has five floors. During the probe, Ruto’s lawyer Ahmednasir Abdullahi told NLC that the defunct Directorate of Civil Aviation had been given an alternative land. The land was formerly the site of the KCAA central stores.