Kenyans are sharply divided over calls to expand the Executive to accommodate more interests, Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) taskforce co-chair Adams Oloo said yesterday. He said the issue of elective positions and whether they are too many has also drawn mixed opinions. “Kenyans are taking divergent views on these two matters. They differ from county to county,” Oloo told People Daily on the sidelines of a public hearing session in Nairobi. Debate has been raging on whether to increase the number of positions in the Executive. There are proposals to create the position of prime minister and two deputies as a way of accommodating more communities in the country’s leadership. National ethos He said in the 15 counties the team has visited, some citizens support the creation of the position of PM while others say the country is already overrepresented. There have also been calls to scrap some positions of representation, particularly senator and Woman Rep seats. Oloo said Kenyans were, however, in agreement that unless the country addresses the issue of national ethos, not much will be achieved. “The feeling of Kenyans is that most of the problems bedevilling the country start from the family. Matters corruption are issues of integrity,” Oloo said. He said when the team visited North Eastern region, the issue of marginalisation and unfair sharing of resources dominated the hearings. Appearing before the team yesterday, the Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Kenya (ICPAK) accused the Legislature of usurping the role of the Executive, citing the constituency development fund. “By giving themselves the position of patrons is in itself unconstitutional. By creating the National Government Constituency Development Fund (NG-CDF), the MPs acted in contravention of the law,” said Fredrick Riaga from ICPAK. Legislative role Parliamentarians, Riaga said should restrict themselves to the legislative roles since their involvement in matters Executive was affecting the smooth running of the government. The institute also wants the Constitution to be amended to give the offices of the Auditor General and that of the Director of Budget total independence. “The independence of the two offices which are a crucial in the management of resources only exists on paper,” said Riaga. On corruption, the Institute proposes that the law be amended to allow individuals facing graft related cases step aside until after their cases are heard and determined.