National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB) are a match away from clinching the elusive Kenya Handball Federation (KHF) men’s league title they last won in 2014. The millers remain unbeaten in the 22-team men’s league, having registered just one draw, against Tigers, so far. Over the weekend, the Edna Kasandi-coached side saw off Kakamega’s Rangers 40-22 for their 19th win in 20 matches to take their point count to 39. Timothy Kirimi led the onslaught for the former champions with seven goals as they took a 29-9 lead into the break. Ranger, however, would not go down without a fight and they outscored the Millers in the second half at 13 goals against the winners 11 but it was too little too late for them. Despite NCPB’s good run, the race to the title could be put to a stop by defending champions Black Mamba when the two sides meet this Sunday for the season decider. The same day will see another possible title deciding match between Strathmore and Ulinzi played. This will be a must win match for NCPB as losing the encounter will throw open the title race. Rivals Strathmore are breathing down the leader’s neck at 36 points with two matches in hand. The students could clinch the title if they go past Ulinzi and Mamba beat NCPB. On their part, Ulinzi won their two weekend ties 41-28 against Flickers and 39-29 against Rangers to take their point count to 36 after 19 matches. The military side is also in the running for the title if they can pull wins in their two remaining fixtures for 40 points and hope NCPB lose against Mamba. Meanwhile, Kakamega-based Rangers sealed their playoff position after beating Generation 38-22 and National Youth Service (NYS) 53-29 to go fifth on 31 points. As the league concludes by the end of the month, organisers are urging the government through the Ministry of Sports to open up the Nyayo National Stadium handball court for their use in the new season. The facility’s closure has spelled trouble for the KHF league organisers. “We have been using Kaloleni since the closure of Nyayo but interruptions are the order of day. This is a community facility that is often used for other purposes thus interrupting the league and the league has dragged on for the last two season,” said one organiser.