For years, some Kenyan gospel artistes have preached obedience and righteousness, but continue defiling the altar they preach from, writes Grace Wachira The evidence is there and it is damning! You cannot make this stuff up. The light hasn’t been shining bright from Kenyan gospel music scene. Scandal after scandal rock us and we take it all in. But what happened to towing the line and drinking the water they preach? What happened to non-scandalous gospel artistes of old who walked the straight and narrow path? It doesn’t help that music is one of the most powerful platforms and in essence, the pulpit for our gospel music ministers, but they continue violating it. A handful of artistes really walk the talk while others, well, do not live up to their message of the cross. Rumours here and there dot the lifestyles of our gospel artistes. Some are spotted at popular clubs downing frothy drinks or seen in otherwise compromising situations with hotties. As all these talks float, there are some notable members of this fraternity that go on to parade their lifestyles that are contrary to the gospel they belt out. Gospel of hopelessness Just a week ago, gospel artistes Hopekid, DK Kwenye Beat and Ringtone and Pastor Ken Gomeri made headlines for all the wrong reasons. It started as a prayer partner hashtag for Eastland’s Most Blessed’s (EMB) Bahati and at the time, video vixen, Diana Marua. Last year, he went down on one knee in the full glare of revellers during a New Year’s Eve concert at Thika Stadium and proposed to his then girlfriend Diana Marua. This came after he bought his family a fully furnished house after the couple welcomed their bundle of joy, Heaven Bahati. He seems to be going about the script from the back. Mid last year, in a private affair, Bahati and Diana had their traditional marriage and even then, talks of Diana already having a bun in her oven were rife. Later on, it was no secret that she was indeed heavy with child. We were suddenly introduced to the Mtoto wa Mama singer’s first biological daughter Mueni by Yvette Obura when she was just about two years old. This was way after he was already in a relationship with Diana. Just this week, EMB record house appeared to have been shut, with allegations going against Bahati that he had been ‘conning’ a music promoter. Photos of what seemed as people packing equipment from the record studio flooded social media. However, Bahati has since put all stops to ensure we never received a word from him regarding all these issues, as our numerous phone calls and text messages went unanswered. Another gospel singer Mr Seed, who recently left EMB Records, is also expecting a child with his girlfriend Nimo Gachuiri and the two have not been shy about it. They have been flooding their social media pages with photos of the baby bump. When we reached out to the Kumbe Kumbe singer, he said that the two chose to be discreete about their affair. “We do not put everything on social media and who says that she and I are not married? Nimo and I are married, but you do not necessarily have to know,” he told Spice. Losing the course According to Mr T, a pastor, gospel artiste and a television host for a gospel show, the current state of things does not paint a good picture for the gospel industry. “By being gospel artistes, they have the moral authority to preach to us about the word of God. So, when we as artistes go against the practices of the Church, that is simply hypocrisy of the highest order,” he said. The Finje Finje singer adds that when artistes, for example have children out of wedlock and scandals that taint their images and go on to preach the gospel through their songs, they taint the sanctity of their ministry. In Christianity, sex between unmarried people is called fornication and the Bible speaks against such acts. 1 Corinthians 7:2 says, But because of the temptation to sexual immorality, each man should have his own wife and each woman her own husband. “The fact that they are public figures, they have youngsters that look up to them. When they go about flaunting the lifestyle that is contrary to the life of a Christian, they in one way or the other normalise these acts and in the long run mislead the very people who look up to them. It should not be encouraged,” he said. Over the years, we have seen a number of gospel artistes abandoning the ‘ship’ and reverting to their old ways. The likes of DNG, A-Star, Kimdanny, DNA, Bamboo and Juliani, just to name but a few, they have been down the salvation path, but never kept the faith to travel the whole length.