Being born and bred in a slum with a few life opportunities is a big challenge in Kenya and it’s one of the largest contributory factor to crime. Children who were born in that environment contribute the largest part of illiteracy levels in the country as most of them drift into crime, leaving them either dead or maimed, thanks to the police bullet. The struggles of these unfortunate members of society has been a real cause of concern although there is light at the end of the tunnel in making them lead honest lives including harnessing their sporting talent. When Bahati Boxing Club in Nairobi was formed a couple of years ago, it was meant to groom the talents of youth to realise their potential in sports in order for them to have gainful employment. According to the club’s boxing coach Kennedy Agavihi, one of the youths has just landed a casual job in Kajiado and he believes more are on the way. Indeed, the club which has very minimal resources has churned out boxers who have gone ahead to get employment through their talents with the trainers burning the midnight oil to ensure it remains the epicentre of talent in Nairobi’s Eastlands. However, in the recent past, the club has endured the rigors of honing the skills of more than 70 youth aged between 14 and 18 years and who had ventured into social vices including theft and drug abuse. Coach Kennedy Agavihi, who assisted by Samuel ‘Hitman’ Otii, said they have so far traversed 21 slums in the country and plucked out lawless youth who they have empowered by introducing them to boxing besides giving them an opportunity to lead honest lives. “We have gone to Lunga Lunga, Mathare, Majengo, Kiambiu, Kayole, Mihang’o and Embakasi slums and lured the youth who had been involved in drug abuse and mugging among other social vices. I’m glad that they have changed their lives and have now embraced boxing,” said Agavihi. Besides grooming the boxers, some of them have been beneficiaries of donation of handcarts and are now selling water to make ends meet, thanks to the philanthropy of Britain-based well-wisher Karau Mwangi who has also donated gloves, pads and punching bags to the club in the past. “These youth are teeming with talent and once we get a sponsor, they will get even better. Getting criminal youths to transform is much easier than the older ones and this is a venture that should be supported by the county government,” he said.