Amos  Abuga @PeopleSport11 “Anticipate big surprises,” were the words of veteran athletics coach Barnabas Kitilit before the start of the 43rd National Cross-Country Championship at the Eldoret Sports Club on Saturday. Rightfully so, the race lived up to its billing. Kitilit had envisaged that speed and endurance and not muscles were the ingredients needed to carry the day, in a course that was relatively flat. South Rift’s Amos Kirui, ousting three time World Cross-Country champion Geoffrey Kamworor, making to the tape first in a time of 29:50.5, for arguably his biggest win in the gruelling trials that were christened mini worlds. Evans Keitany returned home second in 29:57.4, Rodgers Keitany 29:59.3, Richard Kimunyan 30:00.1, Kamworor 30:03.9 and Rhonex Kipruto 30:08.1, The team comprised the senior men team that will represent the country Aarhus, Denmark. Deputy President, William Samoei Ruto who was the guest of honour sat and closely followed the race from the main dais, at the climax, together with Paul Chepkwony, Kericho Governor, put their hands to their heart and gave each other the thumps up, perhaps the perfect gesture to a well packed Eldoret Sports Club, the self-styled home of champions. “I have been preparing for this race for more than four months. It is tone of my happiest moments because I was not the favourite coming to this race. Kamworor, Rhonex Kipruto, Edward Zakayo were the jewel in the crown. I decided to stay in it for a slot in the team,” articulated the former U20 champion. “In the last 2km, I noticed the champion, (Kamworor), had uncharacteristically showed signs of fatigue, that is when I decided to cash in on my finishing kick,” Kirui, who had camouflaged behind the leading pack of Keitany, Rodgers Kwemoi and Kimunyan gave a blow-by-blow account of the race. And still, in the quite chilly Scandinavian weather, Kamworor could still bank on his prowess and experience to defend the global title, however, will not dither Kirui from enjoying the shine. “Here we were literally killing each other, but in Denmark, we shall be putting a united Kenyan front, we shall celebrate whoever wins, that is my delight that is my desire,” observed the gold medalist winner from Bydgoszcz, Poland.