Dickens Wasonga @PeopleDailyKe Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) has revealed how it will widen its net to increase tax collection. KRA has its eyes on 418,000 individuals and 10,500 new corporate taxpayers. Also targeted are 1.5 million businesses and 25,000 professionals not previously captured. The agency’s net will also capture 40,000 individuals trading online, 66,000 new landlords and 430 registered companies which are currently not appearing as active in the KRA’s taxation system. Speaking during the launch of the Seventh Corporate Strategic Plan in Kisumu, KRA commissioner for strategy, innovation and risk management Mohamed Omar, said KRA seeks to raise the number of active taxpayers from the current 3.94 million people to seven million by 2021. Illicit trade He said the agency hopes to realise the goals of the three-year plan by not only expanding the tax base, but also reducing illicit trade, customer service improvement, robust research, staff expansion and enhanced integrity. To net those in the informal and the micro enterprise sector, he said the authority plans to develop and implement a cash economy strategy which will enhance tax compliance. It will also roll out a strategy to improve compliance in the professional sector focusing on entertainers, doctors, engineers, lawyers and consultants who were previously left out. “We want to ensure everybody who is eligible is brought on board to ease the tax burden on those already paying. We will profile registered companies that are active but are non-compliant or file nil returns,” he added. He disclosed that KRA was already integrating its tax system with other government agencies to capture data on land, business registration services and mobile data which includes money transfers, adding that the revenue collector had finalised the legal framework for accessing third party data. Omar said that KRA requires 14,555 employees to be able to efficiently deliver on its mandate. He disclosed that the authority will be lobbying Treasury to give it funds to hire an additional 3,900 workers to beef up the current 6,906. He said some of the areas that face the understaffing challenges include taxpayer services, border management, debt and refund functions, research, dispute resolutions and tax expansion. “With the current threat of terrorism and political turmoil affecting our neighbouring countries, we are noticing many cases of smuggling at the borders which is challenging but we have established a sophisticated tracking system to handle the emerging problem’’ he said.