A crop of young Kenyan artistes is rapidly changing the traditional Afro-fusion music by merging it with more modern vibes, writes Manuel Ntoyai When it comes to music and airplay, the so-called uptown artistes — who are full of swagger and surrounded by an aura of hipsters — gobble most of it up. They are eccentric as they come and if you happen to come from the countryside, or if you grew up listening to ‘zilizopendwa’ from the old family transistor radio, they have no time for your ‘ushamba’. This uncharacteristic phenomenon has over the years created a rift between those born in urban areas and those from the countryside. However, with technology helping to bridge the gap, sooner or later the roles are going to be reversed. Apart from technology, the rise of vernacular radio stations has also offered a platform for these artistes to get airplay, with social media coming in as the icing on the cake. Away from the uptown funkiness, there exists a group of talented artistes, who have taken upon themselves to balance the act. Blending modern and traditional music genres, these artistes are creating their own oaths and growing their popularity from their perceived ‘tribal backyards’ to catching up with their Nairobi-based counterparts. Theirs is not just the old Afro-fusion kind of music though. It is hyper, catchy and everything in between. “When I was an active rapper, I would wonder why the so-called ‘River Road’ artistes were making not only more money, but also had good airplay on radio. Now that I am a record label owner, I have come to understand the business side of it and also the need to support these kind of artistes,” says BMG Empire founder and CEO Nasty Bull. Urban influence Ghetto Gavana is one of BMG signees and has just released his latest video for the song Abana. The song features catchy and danceable African rhythm, Luhya beat and some easy to sing along lyrics. It highlights the plight of parents who struggle to get good education for their children, only for the children to drop out of school, influenced by societal vices such as alcoholism and early pregnancies. “Growing up, I used to listen to KBC radio and they had a show called KeTaU, which played East African music from artistes such as Jose Chameleone and Redsan. Also, there are Meru artistes who greatly influenced my love for music. Traditional Meru music is called Kirarire and musicians Kamanu and Karimi Bruno would be played in almost every homestead that had a radio cassette player,” says Meru-based singer Nassizu Murume, who is also the Watanashati Classics CEO. Nassizu broke into national limelight after doing a cover version of Ali Kiba’s hit Mwana in Kimeru. He’s since grown his brand from that platform. “I love bongo music and growing up, artistes such as Matonya and Ali Kiba were the stars I wanted to be like. However, I later realised many of my peers were torn between listening to Kirarire and the modern music and that is where I got the idea to fuse the two. I started Watanashati Classics with my partners and so far, things are looking good as more young talents from Meru want to be identified with this new flow,” he says. For rapper Smallz Lethal, ‘Ndizi Flow’ or ‘Mogaka Music’ is an identity for those coming from Kisiiland or ‘Banana Republik’ as he fancies it. “Rap music is mostly done in English and when Swahili rap grew to where it is right now, I would bump into my hommies in Kisii town who would free style in Kikisii, but didn’t have the confidence or resources to record actual songs. “When we met with Raj and did Ndizi Flow, that is when the name started getting popular. Previously, we had the likes of Mr Ong’eng’o who paved ways for many of us. Now we have the likes of Miggy Champ, Mr Vekta and Babu Gee and we are all moving the masses towards this direction for future generations,” says Smalls Lethal, who recently released his song Zimeshika, produced by Kisii-based sound engineer Agosto. The fusion Lethal says the artistes had issues getting producers who would understand not only the language, but also how to blend traditional instruments and modern rap. Dancehall singer Rankadah sees himself as versatile enough to blend Jamaican Patois with Kiswahili, Sheng and Kikamba. His moniker, Ula Mukamba, means the Kamba guy, a name he got from his peers growing up. He explains that he uses a mixture of his mother tongue with English and Kiswahili to capture all audiences and maintain his originality, a style that has so far been his identity in the industry. He says he would venture into any genre of music but Lingala. Currently, he is enjoying the ragga vibe in his releases. “There is no running away from the fact that I am a Kamba and proud one at that. I love reggae and dancehall music and I also grew up listening to benga music with the likes of Ken Wa Maria being played in almost all Kamba radio stations. From there, I got my style and even in the streets, many identify me with the same and my flow style,” he tells Spice. In Maasailand, a new genre called Maafleva is growing rapidly. Traditional Maa music is called Eoko and the morans would sing while competing in jump dance. However, as years progressed, many of them went to school and got influenced by modern music, especially reggae and bongo. The young generation of artistes has been able to blend the two and that is how Maafleva came into existence. “Maafleva represents a generation that wants to chart its own course by expressing themselves through music. We have artistes who do house music, reggae, bongo and kapuka. They are all fused with traditional Maa music such as the chants and we are also able to use the old rythyms to come up with more funkier music, especially for youthful campus-going audience,” says Kimintah, a Maafleva artiste.