Mercy Mwai @wangumarci The wastage in government was yesterday laid bare in a fresh report indicating that a total of 545 projects estimated at Sh365.9 billion have stalled despite contractors pocketing billions of taxpayers money. The projects strewn across the country have either been abandoned, unfunded or neglected even after the contractors are said to have been paid Sh72.4 billion. Among the worst affected ministries and departments whose projects have stalled for various reasons include the ministries of Interior, Water, Transport, Housing, Infrastructure Public Works and Sports. Revelations by the National Treasury in a document tabled in the National Assembly yesterday by Leader of Majority Aden Duale come after President Uhuru Kenyatta ordered freezing roll out of new projects stressing that the old ones must be first completed. According to the documents, the status of the projects indicates that construction has currently been deferred while in sectors where construction has started, the progress is below 50 per cent. To ensure completion, Treasury Principal Secretary Dr Kamau Thugge  has asked ministries and government departments to expedite on viable stalled projects and implement them in a phased out manner within the budget ceilings. Thugge said his directive follows a circular from the Treasury issued last August requiring all MDAs to provide details of all the stalled capital projects for submission to the National Assembly. Last year, Uhuru while addressing a meeting bringing together all government accounting officers including principal secretaries, parastatal heads, vice-chancellors of public universities and chairmen of state corporations issued a directive freezing all new government projects until those that are ongoing are completed. He said that his directive is aimed at stopping wastage of resources and the habit of government agencies abandoning incomplete projects before jumping onto others. In the report, the Department of Irrigation has 193 pending projects estimated at ShSh5.5b while Lands and Physical planning ministry has three pending projects worth Sh6 billion  that have stalled including the construction of a survey, inspection and maintaining national international boundaries department at Sh4.9 billion and renovation of land registries at Sh500 million. Financial dynamics The Department of Energy has one project worth Sh8 billion,  Department of  Crops ( four projects, Sh43 billion) while State Department for Regional and Northern Corridor development (various, which have stalled include the Ewaso Ng’iro North River Basin Development, Sh 51.8 billion) The Interior ministry headed by Dr Fred Matiang’i; Security sector ( 20 stalled projects, Sh744 million — which comprises of Sh236 million for the  construction of police stations and housing for Administration Police services). Other projects that have stalled include construction of inpatient dispensary at Administration Police Training College  in Embakasi. The crime data repository unit has one stalled project worth Sh27 billion which has been deferred, while the correctional services has 74 pending projects worth Sh940 million. In the Transport ministry, there are 10 stalled projects worth Sh79 billion out of which the most affected project is the abandoned Greenfield Terminal (Sh64.7 billion) and the refurbishment of Wilson Airport washrooms and security officers that have been terminated due to chain of business cases. The Greenfield Terminal project was terminated in March 2016 by the Kenya Airports Authority (KAA) because of what was termed “prevailing operational, economic and financial dynamics”. Under the Sports ministry, five projects worth Sh43.8 billion have stalled including the construction of three national stadia in Mombasa, Eldoret and Nairobi at cost of Sh35 billion for lack of funding as well as the refurbishment of seven regional stadia’s at Sh2.4 billion. The others are Kenya Academy of Sports phase one at a cost of Sh859 million which has stalled because of budgetary constraints, establishment of National Sports Lottery at a cost of Sh882 millon. Others are State department for early learning and basic education which has one stalled project worth Sh3.9 billion while the National Treasury has three stalled projects worth Sh11 billion under which the delayed projects include upgrading and integration of pension management programme at Sh1 billion and installation of security at the Treasury Building at Sh984 million. Drilling of dams The Judiciary on the other hand has stalled projects worth Sh2 billion out of which majority of the stalked projects include the construction of various law courts and Judicial Service Commission (JSC) offices in various parts of the country. The State Department of Housing has 33 stalled projects valued at Sh4.1 billion including the rehabilitation of various selected road, construction of houses and rehabilitation of Gikomba Market  while the department of public works has 44 pending projects worth Sh14.8 billion. On the hand, the Ministry of Water and Sanitation has 14 pending projects worth Sh15 billion which includes drilling of various dams with the biggest amount going to Badasa and Umaa Dams which have a total estimated cost of Sh3.5 billion and Sh2.7 billion respectively while National Irrigation Board has six stalled projects worth Sh1.7 billion.