Ushuru and Wazito will get a chance to reboot their campaign this weekend following unfavourable results in the recent fixtures. As the National Super League (NSL) enters Round 13 today, both teams will be keen to get their promotion charge back on track with tricky matches against Kisumu Allstars and Fortune Sacco respectively. Last weekend, the taxmen on 29 points fell to their first defeat; a 2-1 loss to fourth placed FC Talanta and will be itching to put that nightmare performance behind them and return to winning ways. On the other hand, Wazito which is a point adrift of the leaders is still smarting from an unlikely 1-1 draw away to enterprising Kenya Police at Karuturi and in newcomers Fortune Sacco, face another unpredictable side which is capable of causing trouble. Ken Kenyatta’s Ushuru, however, has a superior goal difference (+7) at the apex of the enticing campaign and are firm favourites against the lakeside outfit today at Ruaraka Grounds. With the attack line marshaled by new signings Jeremiah Wanjala and Brian Yakhama, the taxmen who have scored 21 goals so far are certainly the favourites on paper. Allstars under the tutelage of former International Francis Oduor are under-dogs in the match but are always capable of causing an upset. In their ranks is current league top scorer Dennis Oalo on nine goals who should be a likely bet for a start in this highly anticipated fixture. “We will definitely approach the game with caution because we are playing a very formidable team. The important thing for us is to have good discipline on the ball and stick to our game plan completely,” Oduor told People Sports. Meanwhile, fast-improved Talanta have a date against St Joseph’s Youth that lost 3-1 to third-placed Nairobi. The Communications Authority of Kenya sponsored side are ranked as outsiders for the title after a poor display so far in the campaign. However, coach Abdalla Juma’s charges who have 24 points are raring to go and should have lots of questions for the 14th placed Saints especially with a lethal forward line comprising of Emmanuel Mokaya, Rogers Omondi and Anthony Guchu. Former Premiership giants Shabana are literally in the pits following their sixth loss of the campaign against Coast Stima at Mbaraki last weekend.