Baraka Karama @PeopleDailyKe “My daughter Pendo will now rest in peace because justice has been served.” Those were the poignant words of Lencer Achieng’, mother of Baby Samantha Pendo who was killed in Kisumu during clashes between police and protesters following the 2017 election dispute. Baby Pendo would have been celebrating her second birthday yesterday but as fate would have it, her parents spent the day in court awaiting the outcome of an inquest in into her death. Inside the courtroom in Kisumu, Achieng’ sat pensively, cuddling Pendo’s three-month-old sister Jackline Abanja as she keenly followed proceedings. Achieng’ and her husband Joseph Abanja have spent a good deal of the past year in courts pursuing justice for their child. During her testimony last year, the distraught mother wept as she narrated to the magistrate how the armed police officers stormed their one bedroomed house in Nyalenda estate and attacked her despite pleas that she was carrying an infant. Baby Pendo was later admitted at the Aga Khan Hospital’s intensive care unit and succumbed to severe head injuries inflicted by a blunt object. Yesterday, the court room was packed with family members and human rights activists who had been calling for justice in the case. Tears flowed down Achieng’s face Kisumu resident magistrate Berryl Omoll reviewed the events of the fateful day. After two hours, the magistrate declared that the evidence adduced was sufficient to prove that the police officers were responsible for her death and her face lit up in joy. “We have been crying for justice and today I am happy with what the magistrate has ruled,” she said. She said the ruling would put an end to rumours that her daughter was not killed by police. “The evidence is clear and to those who thought that I cooked what transpired, the magistrate has proven them wrong,” she added. “It has been a long journey and we do hope that now that the files are being forwarded to the DPP, justice will still prevail,” her husband said. Lawyers representing the family led by Ingutia Onyango also applauded the ruling. “It has not been easy for the family and the ruling means a lot to them. The innocent soul will now rest in peace,” Onyango said. Human rights activist Collins Owuor said impunity is beginning to fall in the country.  “Let this be a warning to others,” he added.