Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka has warned against tribalism and urged Kenyans to unite for the sake of development. Speaking at ACK Giachuki Church in Kariara ward, Gatanga, Murang’a county, during funds drive, he praised President Uhuru Kenyatta for his desire to ensure inclusivity in the leadership of the nation, saying exclusion was a serious problem bedevilling the country. During the event, nine legislators who accompanied Kalonzo, most of them from his Wiper party, supported his 2022 top seat bid, saying he was the ideal candidate who would unite the country and ensure peace and harmony. Host MP Nduati Ngugi praised Kalonzo as a dependable leader. Other leaders who accompanied Kalonzo included Kitui Senator Enoch Wambua, Deputy Minority Leader in the National Assembly Robert Mbui, as well as MPs Joshua Mwalyo (Masinga), Paul Nzengu (Mwingi North),  Thuddeus Nzambia (Kilome), Dan Maanzo (Makueni), Kitui Woman Rep Irene Kasalu and Nominated Senator Sylvia Kasanga. Political pundits are bound to read more than just an ordinary fundraiser in yesterday’s event, particularly in light of recent developments where Kalonzo has made statements that many have interpreted as seeking to endear him to the President and his core support base. Last November, during the burial of his father in Tseikuru, Kalonzo declared he would be the President’s “Mtu wa Mkono’’ (errand boy). Early this month,  Kalonzo while addressing a leaders meeting at Koma in Machakos county appeared to suggest that he had no problem supporting the President’s term limit beyond the end of his constitutional second term. The Wiper leader, however, denied the claims during a TV interview, where he clarified that what he actually meant he was willing to support President Uhuru for the post of Prime Minister  envisaged in the proposed constitutional amendments, with the expectations that the latter would reciprocate the gesture by supporting him for the Presidency. Yesterday’s function was used to mend fences between the Kambas and their Kikuyu neighbours, with the MPs stating that the era of animosity that had soured the long-standing friendship between the two communities had ended with the Handshake.