Martin Mwita @MwitaMartin Four mega crop development projects are among those affected by a budget ceiling, with their stalling undermining President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda on food security. As recently revealed by Treasury’s Stalled Capital Projects report, Sh43.02 billion worth of projects under the State Department for Crop Development have stalled even as developers and contractors pocket Sh6.02 billion. The projects are being funded by the government at Sh38.34 billion and foreign funding of Sh4.68 billion. The most affected is the National Accelerated Agricultural Inputs Access Programme (NAAIAP) phase II which was initiated in 2008. Scheduled for completion in June 30,2012, the development has been hit by “budget ceiling”. Cane unit At the NAAIAP phase II project , Sh4.3 billion has been spent with a huge amount going to developers. A whopping Sh34.7 billion is required to complete the work. Another major scheme under the Agriculture ministry department is the Cane Testing Unit development launched on July 1, 2017. The project is estimated to cost the government Sh3.4 billion with its completion scheduled for June 31, 2021. Some Sh1.6 billion has already gone into the project whose progress cannot be quantified. “The project was ongoing with internally generated funds. Budget ceiling did allow inclusion,” the CS Henry Rotich-led ministry notes in the report. The Rice Based Marketing Agriculture Promotion Project (Ricemap)-phase two has also stalled, Treasury has revealed even after consuming Sh119.7 million. The total cost of the project launched on February 2, 2012 is Sh491 million. Expected to be complete by June 2024, the project is being heavily funded by a foreign kitty at Sh401 million with the government chipping in Sh90 million. It will take Sh371.3 million to complete it. Phase one of the project is complete, Treasury Principal secretary Kamau Thugge told member of Parliament. Phase two of the project commenced in 2018. “It was not funded as Phase two documents were not ready. Documents are now ready,” Thugge notes in the report. Three buildings A project on the revitalisation of the cashew nut industry at Sh133 million is also undermining the manufacturing arm of the Big Four agenda. The government initiative started in July 2016 is yet to take shape as Sh1 million goes into its initial development. According to Treasury, the project started with internally generated funds but “budget ceiling did not allow inclusion.” A total of Sh37 billion is required to complete the development of the four key projects.