Bernice Mbugua @BerniceMuhindi Migori Governor Okoth Obado has asked the High Court to review his bail term in a  case he is charged with the murder of 26-year-old Rongo University student Sharon Otieno and her unborn child. He wants the court to allow him to travel within Homa Bay county and also release his travel documents. He said he has strictly complied with the highly restrictive bail terms at all times. He said, as a governor, his work involves travelling especially from Nairobi to Migori town, where his official residence and office are situated. The High Court, while releasing him on bail last year, issued stringent terms, including depositing all his travel documents—Kenyan, East African and diplomatic passports—in court. The governor was also warned against causing an adjournment in the case and to report monthly to the deputy registrar of the said court. Justice Jessie Lessit had further warned Obado against going anywhere within 20km of Homa Bay’s boundary on all its sides. The governor was also directed not to contact or intimidate, whether directly or by proxy, any witness in the case as per the witness statements and other documents that supplied by the State to the defence. In his bail review application, however, Obado argued that Migori is comprises eight constituencies and a big portion of five areas border Homa Bay county and the 20km restrictions were barring him from effectively serving all residents. “The only mode of traveling to Nairobi from Migori town without coming within the prohibited 20km distance or incurring heavy costs of chattering a flight is by road through Trans Mara,  which takes 6 hours longer than the preferred Kisii-Suneka–Rongo road that falls within the restricted distance,” he said in court documents. Obado said the restrictions have barred him from discharging the constitutional mandate as governor, adding that the Trans Mara Road has a very rough terrain, making it uncomfortable and torturous to travel on. The governor said he is the chairperson of the Agriculture sub-committee of the Council of Governors, where part of his mandate is to represent the council in international, regional and national forums and conferences touching on his docket. He argued that having deposited all his travel documents in court, he cannot effectively execute his mandate in the committee. “The review of the bail term will not in any way affect prosecutions of the trial,” he said in court documents. The prosecution has, however, opposed the application, saying the condition of depositing the travel documents to the court was intended to ensure that he does not leave the jurisdiction of the court without prior permission. According to the prosecution, Obado needs to make specific requests,  whenever he intends to leave the said jurisdiction as a blanket permission would beat the purpose of the order. The application will be heard on March 20, when the pre-trail hearing is also set to begin.