Hillary Mageka @hillarymageka At least two sitting governors are on the radar of the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) as focus shifts to county bosses alleged to have stolen public funds through proxies. EACC Chief Executive Twalib Mbarak, in an interview on Tuesday a governor whose identity he did not reveal will be arrested and forced to record statements over alleged embezzlement of funds in his government. At the same time, he claimed that corrupt officials have now resorted to hiding looted cash in their houses and offices. “One thing we have realised is that corrupt officers shy away from banks because banks have put in place very strict rules, you have to explain the source of cash and why you want to withdraw,” Mbarak told Citizen TV’s Newsnight show. “The current debate that the Central Bank governor should lift the Sh1 million limit is unnecessary. We know where they are keeping the money and many other places where they live,” the EACC boss stated. Mbarak said had unearthed the latest tricks after members of the public volunteered information on corrupt county officials. Public funds Corrupt officials are shying away from banks because they have to explain where they got the money from. This means they are stashing money in their homes. “Last week, a governor was grilled in our offices over corrupt deals. This week we have summoned another one over loss of public funds in his county,” he  said. In the next one month, the EACC head promised Kenyans that they will see heightened activity in efforts to slay the graft dragon. “I understand Kenyans’ anger on corruption. For the first time in this country, the war on graft has goodwill from the highest political office,”  he said. Meanwhile, Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru will have to wait a little longer to know if her name  will be cleared in the Sh791 million National Youth Service (NYS) scandal. Businesswoman Josephine Kabura in an affidavit had previously linked Waiguru, the former Devolution Cabinet Secretary  to the scam saying as her boss, the governor was aware of the massive plundering of resources at the NYS. But Mbarak yesterday told the county boss that her case was on course and it will not be hurried at all. “We are not going to treat Governor Waiguru any differently because she is a governor. Due process must be followed,” Mbarak told Citizen TV’s News night show. He said his agency was dealingwith other substantial cases which are yet to be resolved but promised to get her feedback through the normal process. “The case is being handled. She will get feedback through the normal process. There is no need to rush just because she is a governor. Her case is not special,” he advised, even as she urged the governor to be patient as her case was being handled. According to him, there are several cases that have stalled because of missing gaps and due