When it comes to con jobs, the bigger the name or office used to steal from the unsuspecting victim, the better. In recent months, the names of  Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria, Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti, CitizenTV’s Yvonne Okwara, Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko, First Lady Margaret Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto have been used to con people of hard-earned cash. When many thought the con men could not go higher in the name-stealing scam, they climbed another rung and President Uhuru Kenyatta himself became a victim. Tight security Well, the real victim according to the prosecution in a case in which seven suspects were yesterday arraigned in a Nairobi court, is Sameer Africa chairman Nashud Merali who allegedly lost Sh10 million to cons posing as Uhuru. Joseph Waswa, Duncan Muchai, Isaac Wajekeche, William Simiyu, David Luganya, Gilbert Kirunja and Anthony Wafula were taken to court under tight security escort around 4.45pm but were not charged as the DPP sought more time to complete investigations. Mimicking the voice of the President, it is alleged the suspects used mobile number 0722208842 to call Merali, asking him to facilitate the release of money for the purchase of land. They pretended the call was from State House. People Daily confirmed the number bears Uhuru’s name on the True Caller application. According to police, Merali was outside the country on a business trip when the fraudsters called. Head of State He gave complainant Akif Hamid Butt, the Finance Director of Sameer Africa, the go-ahead to process the payment, believing he was dealing with the Head of State. According to Butt, he was given an account number, held at Equity Bank in which he deposited the money. “The complainant later realised he was dealing with fraudsters after he had already lost Sh10 million,” said Merali. While seeking more time to carry out investigations, the DPP  told Milimani Principal Magistrate Peter Ooko police are conducting investigations into a case of forgery, conspiracy to defraud and obtaining money by false pretense. In a supporting affidavit, detective corporal James Mwangi attached at the DCI headquarters says the respondents are being investigated for a crime involving fraudulent misrepresentation that involves millions of shillings and senior State House officials. He says the suspects were arrested on February 22 and 23. “Ten days is a reasonable estimate for purposes of these investigations,” submitted senior State counsel Edwin Okello. He said that due to the complexity of the investigations and the number of suspects involved , including some who are still at large, the investigations will involve going through voluminous documents including bank documents and call data records analysis. Some of the suspects appeared calm while others were seen wiping tears in court as the hearing of their application for detention was being canvassed. “It is alleged that the said fraudsters using mobile number 0722208842 called the chairman Sammer Africa to facilitate the release of the money while mimicking the voice of the president calling from State House, Nairobi county,” reads the court documents. It is said that the suspects have been defrauding people especially those of the Asian community by mimicking the President’s voice.