DPPS Deputy President William Ruto has asked leaders to shun petty politics and focus on development Speaking on Friday at Kitale Showground, Trans Nzoia county, during celebrations to mark Bishop Samuel Thiongo’s 50 years of service at the Pentecostal Evangelistic Fellowship of Africa (Pefa), Kitale, Ruto called for teamwork among all leaders in addressing challenges facing the country. Ruto said elections were over, adding that it was time for leaders to work together, regardless of party and ethnic backgrounds to change the country for better. “Elections are over and it is now time to work together regardless of party affiliations to change Kenya for the benefit of our people,” he said. He asked leaders to focus on activities that can transform the lives of Kenyans. “Let’s not talk politics from January to January. Even the Bible tells us that there is time for everything,” said the DP. Ruto said the government was committed to transforming the lives of Kenyans through implementation of projects under the Big Four agenda— manufacturing, affordable housing, food security and healthcare. “In our Big Four agenda, once implemented, manufacturing will solve the problem of unemployment, food security will address food shortages, accessible healthcare will reduce cost of medicine while housing is aimed at ensuring affordable houses for Kenyans,” he said. Ruto was accompanied by MPs Caleb Amisi (Saboti), Oscar Sudi (Kapseret) and Kimani Ngunjiri (Bahati). He asked legislators to help the government to improve schools infrastructure to cope up with the rising number of learners enrolling to secondary schools in respect to the 100 per cent primary to secondary transition policy, through the Constituency Development Fund (CDF). “MPs should use CDF to improve schools infrastructure to ensure success of the 100 per cent transition from primary to secondary. This will ensure equality in our society,” he said. Ruto said Sh1.5 billion would be used in the construction of Kolongolo water project to supply the commodity to residents as well as Kitale town. Ngunjiri said MPs will continue to support the government in addressing challenges facing the country.Amisi supported calls for a referendum to amend the Constitution ahead of 2022 elections to introduce parliamentary system of governance with a president, who would serve for a non-renewable seven-year term. Earlier, Ruto attended the funeral service of Kipkorir Yator, who was a presidential escort officer during the reign of former presidents Jomo Kenyatta and Daniel Moi, at Chuiyat, in Kesses, Uasin Gishu county. Governor Jackson Mandago, MPs Janet Sitienei (Turbo) and Caleb Kositany (Soy) attended the event. Ruto also opened administrative units for Ziwa Technical Training Institute and Ziwa Secondary School in Soy, Uasin-Gishu.