George Kebaso @Morarak Deputy President William Ruto has now, for the first time, acknowledged that the land on which his Weston Hotel sits was illegally acquired. His admission, in a BBC HARDtalk show interview, a current affairs programme hosted by Stephen Sackur, thrusts him into a dicey position where he has to contend with the fact in law — ignorance is no defence — and thus the original sin of illegal acquisition will never stop haunting him. Legal experts argue Ruto now has two options in the  controversial ownership of the land on which his multi-million-shilling Weston Hotel stands on: Pay reparations or relinquish the land.  The DP, however, maintained that he was an innocent buyer who bought the parcel of land from the original owners. “Weston was not bought illegally. In fact, for the record, the National Land Commission (NLC) has made a finding that Weston was an innocent purchaser for value from somebody who got it illegally,” he said adding that the constitutional process seeking to compel the original owner to compensate the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority (KCAA) is currently underway. “Preparations have been made constitutionally to restore that land to KCAA by demanding that those who sold the land to us must pay,” he said. Just last month, NLC recommended that Ruto pays an estimated Sh350 million for the land. As part of the recommendations, the NLC further said it could undertake fresh valuation of the land before a final figure is sent to the DP for settlement, if he agrees with the Commission’s outcome. However, a lawyer well versed in commercial land matters, but who sought anonymity said yesterday that NLC verdict can either; be reviewed and be set aside, or be challenged at the Court of Appeal. He said going forward since the DP has admitted that his Weston Hotel sits on grabbed land, he should willfully relinquish it. “He just needs to surrender the land back to the government, or alternatively, to the person whom it was officially registered under,” he told People Daily. Land Development and Governance Institute (LDGI) executive director Mwenda Makathimo also said that if Ruto cannot voluntarily surrender the land now that he has expressly admitted it was acquired illegally, then a legal process can be instituted. “There are no options here. It’s either the owners of the hotel relinquish the piece of land willfully, or someone goes to court to challenge the status quo. We have to be careful to differentiate from mere public admission and the legal realities involved,” he said in a telephone interview. He said if KCAA believes the land belongs to them, then they should apply for a legal process to reacquire it back. According to KCAA’s legal general manager Cyril Wayong’o, the land where Weston Hotel sits on, originally belonged to the East Africa Community which collapsed in 1977.  It had been developed and was being used as storage premises for the machinery and aviation equipment of the then Directorate of Civil Aviation (DCA). In November during a hearing, Wayong’o told the NLC that a scheme was hatched to grab the parcel in 1999. On June 29, 1999, it emerged from a report by then Commissioner of Lands Sammy Mwaita to DCA indicating he had received an application from a group that wanted to build a church on the site. The DCA on July 8,1999, objected and told Mwaita it had plans for the land so it could not be allocated to third parties.  “This property had been set aside by DCA for the construction of its headquarters,” said Wayong’o. The whole conversation came about when the veteran journalist inquired about the state of corruption in Kenya and why the DP was ranked as the most corrupt person, according to a report by Ipsos Kenya. But the DP said it was all political. “If you look at that list, you got William Ruto, a retired president (Daniel Moi), the current president Uhuru Kenyatta, the former Prime Minister Raila Odinga. Largely, all the political leaders that exist today in Kenya were on that list. That tells you that the whole corruption narrative has been politicised,” said Ruto.  He, however, said he is currently doing everything possible to ensure that the illegalities are corrected. Lawyer Ahmednasir Abdullahi who represents Ruto, told NLC commissioners that Ruto acquired the land in 2007 for Sh10 million from Priority Management Ltd and Monene Investments Limited.