The fate of at least four appointees to foreign missions is yet to be decided even as the Foreign Affairs ministry moved to dispel fears that they have been rejected by the countries they had been posted to. Last evening, reports indicated Kenya was using all diplomatic means to ensure the nominees report to their destinations by next week. However, Kenya’s ambassador to Austria Hassan Wario is expected to report back to his station in Vienna on Monday.Wario had been recalled to answer to a corruption case which is pending in court. Our source said the ministry was making last- minute diplomatic push to have the appointees report to their stations. Those who are yet to report and whose fate has not been explained are Sarah Serem (China), Muhoro Ndegwa (Malaysia), Johnstone Ondiek (Turkey) and Richard Ekai (Russia). Another group of Benjamin Langat (Namibia), Phyllis Kandie, (European Union) and Paddy Ahenda (Qatar) are still waiting for a signal from their bases. Yesterday, the ministry of Foreign Affairs in a statement said the current deployment of envoys is within the conventional timelines consistent with global practice. Rejection claims According to the ministry,  Kenya has never had any envoy rejected by any country, adding that the situation applies to the cohort of heads of mission. “In fact, all the host countries are ready to receive them and have begun to do so. Every country schedules the presentation ceremonies at specific times depending on their traditions and availability of the Head of States,” read the statement. The case of the Kenya appointee to South Sudan Chris Mburu who has been rejected has not been addressed. Mburu, a former director at the National Intelligence Service was assigned to Juba but the South Sudanese government was uneasy with spies serving in the country and hence rejected him. The ministry is yet to respond to the issue of Kandie who was rejected by the European Union and replaced by Prof Jacob Kaimenyi. Reacting to the reports, Foreign Affairs PS Macharia Kamau termed the delay as normal saying there was nothing unusual for ambassadors to take long before the formal deployment. The PS said the eight will be departing for the new stations at the end of this week and early next week. “Delay in deployment of envoys is normal world over. A case in hand is the new United States Ambassador to Kenya who has taken months before taking over,” said Kamau. Experts have urged the government to appoint more career diplomats to its foreign missions after seven recently appointed ambassadors failed to get accreditation from their host nations. International relations scholars termed the reservations against the seven a wakeup call and an embarrassment to President Uhuru Kenyatta’s administration. KCA Vice chancellor Prof Noah Midamba decried the lack of professionalism among some of Kenya’s diplomats who appear clueless about their functions. Midamba’s sentiments were echoed by The Horn Institute director Hassan Khannenje who attributed the diplomatic ‘‘snub’’ of the seven ambassadors to their alleged poor credentials.