Mercy Mwai @wangumarci It is emerging that the office of the Auditor General’s books have not been audited for four years, barely six months before occupant Edward Ouko’s term expires. This follows revelations that efforts by the National Assembly to procure an external auditor have been futile with local firms giving the job a wide berth. Speaking when he appeared before the National Assembly’s Public Accounts Committee (PAC) chaired by Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi, clerk Michael Sialai appealed to MPs to allow him to use other means to procure the tender including inviting international bids. Negative response “We have been unable to secure an auditor and it has been a disservice to the Office of the Auditor General (OAG) that its accounts have not been audited. We have tried but always gotten a negative response. I really feel frustrated about this,” he said. Sources said local firms have declined to bid for the job, citing conflict of interest as many of them get tenders from Ouko’s office. It was understood that some of the audit firms may have declined to take up the tender as it only involves Sh8 million yet the tenders they get from the office involve larger amounts of money. “You know some of these local firms don’t want to be in bad books with the office of the Auditor General because they are in business with it and the tenders are worth millions of shillings,” said the source who sought anonymity. Sialai now wants to explore other means including sourcing the services from Common Wealth jurisdictions to end the impasse. He also suggested inviting the General Auditing Commission of Liberia to appraise their Kenyan counterparts. However, that did not sit well with MPs after Ouko admitted that his office also audits the Liberians following an earlier MoU by the two offices. They were okay with the clerk getting a reputable firm from any other country besides Liberia which they fear would produce a report favourable to him. The process to get an external auditor for the OAG has been ongoing since June 2016 through the Parliamentary Service Commission with four firms bidding. But although the evaluation committee recommended M/s Baker Tilly Merali, the lowest bidder, be awarded the tender, MPs rejected the name of the firm when tabled in the House on grounds of conflict of interest. It is after this that PSC recommended the process of acquiring the external auditor be initiated by the Clerk. Ouko appealed to the MPs not “to read too much on the technicality of conflict of interest” saying it will only delay the process further and lock out firms that have been doing business with his office. “The issue of conflict of interest must be looked at in the sense that if someone has worked for you, it should not be an issue. It could be the reason why reputable firms are keeping off because they do a lot of business with us,” he said.