Baraka Karama @PeopleDailyKe It began with an election, then a contested outcome and finally chaos, destruction of property and death.  But none of the 37 fatalities symbolised the absurdness of the August 2017 post-election violence better than that of Baby Samantha Pendo. Ironically, the distant future leader lost her life in a dispute to pick a current leader, a process she was seventeen and a half years away from legally participating in. Yesterday, five senior police officers were found liable of her death. Delivering the landmark ruling, Kisumu Resident Magistrate Beryl Omollo said the evidence before her was sufficient to indict former Kisumu County Police Commander Titus Yoma, Chief Inspector John Thiringi, Inspector Linah Kosgey and Senior Superintendents Benjaman Koima and Christopher Maweu. The court also asked Director of Public Prosecutions to investigate some 30 junior officers involved in the operation at Nyalenda. Thiringi was, at the time, the Officer Commanding the Kisumu Central Police Station, while Kosgey was in charge of Nyalenda Police Post. The magistrate also ordered action be taken against 30 General Service Unit officers who had been deployed to Nyalenda, led by their commander Chief Inspector Kyengo Masha. Equally, 16 other officers deployed within Nyalenda area on the fateful day will also be treated as persons of interests. “I am satisfied that Pendo did not die as a result of natural consequences but due to severe head injury caused by a blunt force trauma inflicted on her by members of the National Police Service,” Omollo read in the 38-page judgment. Baby Pendo succumbed to severe head injuries at the Kisumu’s Aga Khan Hospital intensive care unit.According to a report by the Kenya National Human Rights Commission in October 2017, three out of the 37 people who died in the violence were from Kisumu county. Armed police officers, who were quelling the riots in Nyalenda estate, raided their Kilo home and hurled teargas canisters.  A total of 31 witnesses, who included the six senior police officers, testified in the public inquest that took 10 months. The officers traded blame at the inquest. Yoma denied being at the scene of the incident on the fateful day and instead pointed an accusing fingers at Mutune, who too denied being in Nyalenda when the chaos broke out. AP commander Koima also refuted conducting operations within Nyalenda area on the day and accused Yoma of lying to the court. He maintained that he was not involved in any way in the particular operation. During the inquest, the court heard that police officers turned a deaf ear pleas from Pendo’s mother Lenncer Achieng. Yesterday, Omollo laid blame on the respective commanders for failing to take necessary action to quell the riots. “The superiors should incur liability for the subordinates’ unlawful conduct for failing to take any action to redress the situation,” she said.