Kenya Handball Federation (KHF) men’s league defending champions Black Mamba averted an upset as they barely held on to win their weekend fixture 34-29 against hard-fighting University of Nairobi (UoN). It was a one sided match in the first 30 minutes of the match ending 19-10 in favour of the holders. After the breather, Mamba continued where they left extending their lead to 30-12 in the first 15 minutes of the second half. However, they crumbled and let the scholars go on a scoring spree in the last 10 minutes of the second half for the final score. Julius Kipkoech and Ancent Mwendwa combined well for the UoN side scoring 10 and seven goals respectively in the loss. Byron Agunda and Nicholas Okore, despite looking out of their element in the second half, scored eight and six goals respectively for Mamba. “Despite the win, I cannot believe that was my team playing. We were playing our game in the first half but the second half was total chaos. There was no communication. We did not go back to defend after our attacks and UoN scored all those goals on fast breaks which is unlike Mamba,” said head coach Martin Abunde who says he has not been with the team for close to two weeks and was lost for words on the touchline. Additionally, the tactician says he had to field some second team players as some of his league players were a no-show. “I could not rotate the team as we normally do. Depending on the same players means they get exhausted as they cannot take the much needed breathers. All players were aware of the fixture so I am yet to know what happened,” he added. Their shot at retaining the title for the third consecutive season is a long one as they have two must win fixtures, against league leaders National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB) and former champions Ulinzi. “We are in tricky situation since, even if we subject the Millers to their first loss we would be banking on Ulinzi to play for a draw against Strathmore so that the decision could come down to a goal-difference decision, which is a long shot,” said Abunde. Meanwhile, Strathmore University had an easy time as they thrashed National Youth Service (NYS) 46-22, a win that takes the Peter Mwathi coached side to 36 points, a point behind leaders NCPB. In the women’s league, leaders Nairobi Water extended their stay at the helm as they saw off Ulinzi Sharks 37-22 to take their point count to 28, two ahead of  second placed NCPB albeit with a match in hand. Sharks remain third while Mt Kenya University are fourth at after a 21-19 win over fellow varsity students Kenyatta University.