Kabras Sugar’s Philip Wakorach leads the run scorers’ after nine rounds of this season’s Kenya Cup. The Ugandan ace has so far scored 11 tries and converted 15 times and a penalty with a total haul of 88 points. Kenyan international Collins Injera of Mwamba is placed second on the table in the scorers’ log with seven tries for a total haul of 35 points. Brian Tanga of Black Blad and Archadeus Khwesa of Kabras have an identical 30 points as Steve  Odhiambo of Nondescripts complete the top-five with 25 points from five tries. In the team competition front, runners-up and current league leaders Kabras Sugar structures were exposed by a solid Harlequins side in the round nine fixture won by the Sugar millers off three converted tries. Wakorach crossed over the chalk twice for the man of the match tag while Kenyan International George Wambua shoved the third try in the first clash of the season where Kabras failed to score four tries for the winning bonus. As Kabras failed to collect a winning bonus for their current 44 points lead, rivals and defending champs KCB slit relegation threatened Leos 53-8 off nine tries and four conversions to reduce their trail gap to four points. Harlequins matched up Kabras in the major departments but it was the visitors who managed to absorb the pressure without conceding a try whilst punishing the hosts ball handling errors. Kenya Cup sides will be looking forward to gain lessons from Harlequins resilience, lessons which could be additional to Homeboyz and KCB being the next sides to take the new role of crushing the nine-match unbeaten run. Harlequins’ loss did little damage in the current standings, remained third with 31 points while rivals Nondies beat Nakuru 33-32 away for the first time in four seasons to consolidate their fourth place on the log. Kabras will be hosting rivals Menengai Cream Homeboyz in their next fixture as KCB host Impala before rivalry between last season finalists is renewed on February 23 in the 11th round. It was Nondies sixth win of the season while on the other hand, the sixth loss for Nakuru. Menengai Oilers joined their neighbour Nakuru in bagging a losing bonus off a 22-24 loss to visiting Impala Saracens. Meanwhile, Stanbic Mwamba savoured sevens speedster’ Collins Injera’s hat-rick in their 26-13 bonus over Blak Blad as Homeboyz launched a comeback against Mean Machine at UoN grounds to return to winning ways off a 22-13 bonus win. Mwamba led 12-3 at the break to leave Blad playing catch up as a bonus hunt in the second half was successful when Injera sealed the match with another individual brilliance try. Homeboyz shrugged off round eight loss with a bonus win over Machine to return to winning ways. Machine led 10-5 at the break but lost control of the match when defensive errors and a third sinbin for the hosts finally saw Homeboyz regain the lead with two quick tries and the bonus try off an interception by Evin Asena to score under the posts.