Kariobangi Sharks striker Sydney Lokale scored the league’s second hat-trick of the season as he inspired his side to a 3-1 thrashing of lackluster Kenya Defence Forces outfit Ulinzi Stars at Kasarani stadium yesterday. After a jittery start to proceedings, the lanky forward broke the deadlock in the 28th minute with a sublime finish past James Saruni in Ulinzi’s goal after beating the soldiers’ high defensive line. Lokale was offered too much room and time to latch onto Michael Bodo’s long pass before slotting the ball between Saruni’s feet for the first goal. He had in the third minute squandered a one-on-one with Saruni but took his chance ruthlessly when the second opportunity presented itself, leaving the soldiers bewildered. Ulinzi attempted to shoot their way back but Ibrahim Shambi’s aims turned wayward. Sharks dominated the rest of the half without hurting Ulinzi again. Three minutes into restart, however, Lokale pounced again with a lovely dummy that left Omar Mbongi on the deck as he breached Saruni’s goal from close range. He completed his hat-trick seven minutes later with a cheeky loop over Saruni to give Sharks a comfortable lead. Ulinzi, who had left the league’s second highest scorer this season Enos Ochieng on the bench, introduced him and reaped near instant results. Ochieng pulled a goal back in the 74th minute, heading into an empty net a ricochet of Elvis Nandwa’s wild shot on the crossbar. Mbongi was later shown a straight red card for dangerously clattering into Fidel Origa two minutes from full time. Elsewhere, 2009  champions Sofapaka escalated their revival under the stewardship of John Baraza as they scooped a fourth consecutive victory in the SportPesa Premier League albeit by a solitary goal over Nzoia Sugar yesterday. John Avire scored the sole goal in the 59th minute to gift Sofapaka their fifth victory of the season and a fourth in a row. The team had won just once under former coach Melis Medo. Nzoia had offered great resistance in the first half but were felled by a plucky Avire who reacted sharply to a loose ball to slot in. At Ruaraka, 11-time champions Tusker shared the spoils with Bandari following a one-all draw. Boniface Muchiri put Tusker ahead in the 40th minute but Wycliffe Ochomo replied for Bandari in the 71st minute. In Awendo, Chrispine Oduor spared leaders Mathare United from a second successive defeat with a 79th penalty as they shared the spoils with Sony Sugar, the match ending 1-1 by KCB and basement side Posta Rangers played to a barren draw.