Irene Githinji @gitshee There are heightened calls to lower the cost of running a General Election in the country, which is among the highest in the region. IEBC was allocated Sh53.5 billion for the 2017 election and the fresh presidential election, which was higher than the Sh24.3 billion spent in 2013. It is estimated that the average cost per voter was about Sh2,500. Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) chairman Wafula Chebukati said elections are expensive owing to the use of technology and increased number of polling stations, from 31,981 to 40,883. Chebukati spoke yesterday during the launch of Post Election Evaluation (PEE) report for the August 7, 2017, General Election and October 26 repeat  presidential election. He said the IEBC fund as provided for in the Elections Act must be operationalised as it will guarantee financial independence of the Commission in planning and funding its operations throughout the electoral cycle. “There is often a misconception that work at the commission ends with elections.  The electoral cycle has three phases; the pre-election, election and Post-election period,” he said. Chebukati said although the commission is legally obligated to audit election technology, popularly known as opening the server, it is yet to honour the role since their budgetary request to National Treasury has never been granted. He also said Treasury consolidated the acquisition and maintenance of all government ICT equipment and services under the Ministry of Information, Communication and Technology. Chebukati said the move would jeopardise the independence of the commission. “We remain alive to the need to adopt electoral processes and technologies that are cost effective and sustainable,” he said. The PEE report highlighted 13 recommendations aimed at improving election processes, including that legal reforms and amendments of electoral laws be carried out at least two years to the election. National Assembly Leader Majority Aden Duale supported the need to manage election expenditure. Retired Chief Justice Willy Mutunga urged IEBC to fight for its independence by rejecting patronage and partisan politics, hence project and elevate its authority effectively.