The three-mile strip off River Tana that was set as the boundary between Tana River and Garissa counties by the colonial government, could be a recipe for chaos and should be scrapped immediately. Garissa Governor Ali Korane said it was inconceivable that the colonial regime ordered the enactment of the law that pushed the boundary three miles inside Garissa from River Tana. River Tana runs 400km between Garissa and Tana River counties and the law, he said, has hindered Garissa residents from accessing water from the river, hence perennial conflicts between the pastoral communities living along the border. Korane spoke when making his presentation to the Building Bridges to Unity Advisory Taskforce during its public hearing in Garissa town. The taskforce is chaired by Garissa Senator Mohamed Yusuf Haji and his deputy Adams Oloo. The governor questioned why Kenya has allowed continued existence of such a statute, saying it was discriminatory against Garissa residents, who have equal rights to River Tana as their counterparts in Tana River county. “For the colonial government to have enacted such a law pushing our people three miles away from River Tana was not only discriminatory but a recipe for chaos,” he said. In a memorandum presented on behalf of Garissa leaders by elder Dubat Amey,  the leaders urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to ensure the three-mile strip law is scrapped to end potential conflict along the border with Tana River county. On constitutional reforms, Korane opposed any attempt to merge counties under the guise of saving  funds. “We need all the 47 counties to remain intact. Our people have seen the fruits of devolution because resources are brought to the grassroots and we are not ready to be governed from elsewhere,” he said. He called for a law to compel the National Treasury to release funds to counties in good time to enable county governments to delivery their mandate. “Cash remittances from Treasury is a big hindrance to the implementation of projects in the grassroots,” he said. Korane proposed change of tact by the national government in security issues by involving counties that border Somalia, the base of Al Shabaab terror group. He said residents of Garissa, Wajir and Mandera counties, which border Somalia, have borne the brunt of Al-Shabaab activities yet the national government was reluctant to involve them in tackling the menace. “In some cases it is impossible to carry out development activities in such areas as workers fear for their lives,” he said. Garissa leaders also called for pastoralists involvement in national economy matters, claiming the group was disadvantaged in many areas of economic development. They also called for the formation of a national council of elders with members representing the former eight provinces. The elders, they said, would help in building bridges and reconciliation among communities. The leaders proposed the inclusion of Madrassas and Dugsi in the mainstream education curriculum, saying this would help in the education of children from some pastoral communities. -KNA