Morris Aron That fuel prices have dropped to 13-month low is a great thing. The question in the minds of many is will this drop be reflected in the pricing of basic goods and services? Manufacturers, transporters and those who provide basic amenities such as electricity and water are always up in arms whenever the Energy Regulatory Commission (ERC) revises the cost of fuel upwards. Such revisions are normally followed by overnight increases in prices of basic commodities and services. However, when fuel prices drop, they go mute or offer all sorts of excuses. With the current drop, it is imperative that the affected parties revise prices downwards. If the cost of energy accounts for up to 60 per cent of the costs of production and that cost drops by more than 15 per cent, it beats all logic to still price the end commodities at prices that do not reflect the drop. The tired argument that firms are still clearing old stock is just that—an old argument. The only explanation for any of the directly affected basic goods and service providers will be that of greed. Effective Thursday last week, a litre of diesel in Nairobi started retailing at a maximum Sh95.96 after a Sh6 cut. ERC slashed the price of a litre of petrol to Sh100 and that of Kerosene by Sh5.20. These pump prices were last witnessed between September 2017 and January last year. ERC says that the cut in prices is as a result of the falling landing costs of oil. Internationally, oil prices are projected to come down significantly over the next few months as a combination of an oil supply gut, a steady shale growth and a global economy that is winding down deflates demand for petroleum and petroleum products. Goldman Sachs say they expect that the oil market will be flat for at least the first four months of 2019 given the higher inventory levels to start the year, consistent shale production in 2018, weaker growth expectations and increased low-cost production capacity. So generally, we do not expect any rise in the cost of oil in the near future. This means less market fears in the rise in inflation among other macroeconomic indicators that strategists in some of these companies look at. The argument that the drop is not for the long term should not hold in this case because into the short term and into the foreseeable future, oil prices will remain flat unless something like an all-out war in the Middle East. This forecast has expanded the pricing change lag by ERC for at least another three months. Let the strategists factor in the oil price drop into the prices of basic commodities. There is really no reason why bus fares from South B to the central business district have not dropped by at least Sh10 or why bread is not Sh5 less. – The writer is an economic researcher. Email: aronmaurice3@gmail.com