Zachary Ochuodho @zachuodho National and county governments have been urged to allocate 10 per cent of the country gross domestic product (GDP) to the agriculture sector to realises the Malabo declaration signed in 2014. The increased allocation will enable farmers, especially small and medium scale dairy farmers, to boost productivity and tackle food insecurity. Consumer Protection, Consumer Unity and Trust Society (Cuts) programme officer Daniel Okendo said dairy farmers comprise 80 per cent of farmers and contribute six per cent to the country’s GDP besides supporting different sectors. He said there is a need to allocate more funds to the dairy sub-sector to improve production. Okendo said the role played by the dairy sector is key to the growth of other sectors and is crucial for the support of the Big Four agenda such as health, manufacturing, agriculture and housing sectors. Speaking yesterday during a Pre-Budget hearing forum for the 2019-2020 financial  year organised by the Institute of Economic Affairs, Okendo said some of the safety issues in the dairy industry emanated from shortage of funds. Dairy industry He said the lack of funds in the dairy industry has also resulted in poor livestock feeds and wastage. Increased funds, he said, will enable operators to deal with issues such as antibiotics, which are found in milk and products due to improper treatment of milk. Kenya Small Scale Farmers Forum (KSSFF) county project coordinator Christine Kakuu proposed an increment of funds to the agricultural sector, saying the allocation will help farmers address the country’s food security. She said there should be a breakdown of the budget of what goes to the dairy industry. Matatu Owners Association chairman Simon Kimutai, proposed that the government train drivers and conductors in the public sector. He said some drivers have procured licences without any formal training. Kimutai said there is need to streamline operations of public transport sector to minimise the losses of lives and property.