The High Court on Friday postponed its much anticipated judgment on the fight to decriminalise gay sex in the country. And in the expectant—and even anxiety-filled courtroom—Justice Chacha Mwita instead delivered the new date, May 24, for the judgment and an apology. He said the three-judge Bench comprising justices Roselyn Aburili, John Mativo and himself has been hearing the case filed by the Kenyan National Gay and Lesbian Human Rights Commission in 2016, was not ready with its judgment. “We apologise the judgment is not ready, judges have been busy handling other cases, we have not had time to meet and make a decision, we plane to do so in April if all goes well,” he said. The NGO is fighting to end what it calls criminalisation of same-sex relations through section 162 and 165 of the Penal Code. Section 162 of the Constitution reads that; “Any person who – (a) has carnal knowledge of any person against the order of nature; or (b) has carnal knowledge of an animal; or (c) permits a male person to have carnal knowledge of him or her against the order of nature, is guilty of a felony and is liable to imprisonment for 14 years. And Section 165 prescribes a five-year jail term for “any male person who, whether in public or private, commits any act of gross indecency with another male person, or procures another male person to commit any act of gross indecency with him, or attempts to procure the commission of any such act by any male person with himself or with another male person, whether in public or private”. But the NGO’s leader Eric Gitari through Senior Counsel Paul Muite says sections are discriminatory and contravene the supreme law. “The sections contravene right to equality; freedom from discrimination, human rights dignity, freedom and security of the person and right to privacy”. During hearing of the case, Muite told the judges that the punishment prescribed for the felony was severe under criminal law besides being discriminatory. But the government through the Attorney General opposed the petition saying the orders being sought were unconstitutional. The AG through lawyer Jeniffer Gitiri argued that decriminalising section 162 and 165 of the Penal Code would be equivalent to allowing unnatural offences between people of the same gender who may have a legitimate expectation to enter into a marriage which is contrary of Article 45 of the Constitution. The AG said the lobby group must show the court how declaring the impugned provisions unconstitutional promotes the national values and principles of governance.  He argued that allowing unnatural acts on basis that it is one in private will be tearing the social fabric of the Kenyan society, adding that  privacy is not an excuse to commit crime. According to the AG, a party seeking an interpretation to declare the sections of the Penal Code or any other section bears a burden of showing that there is sufficient public participation and approval and social justice in such a declaration. And for three months—May 24—Kenyans will keep waiting, and guessing what the court’s verdict will be on this emotive and controversial case.