Coach Cliff Owuor has called a provisional squad of  15 locally-based players, 11 foreign-based and one unattached to the men’s national basketball team preparing for two international friendly matches with Rwanda on February 15-16. The coach will have a week’s non-residential training with the locally based players at Nyayo National Stadium with the foreign-based players expected to join their teammates four or three days before the team travels to Rwanda. According to coach Owuor, the two matches will be the first of several international friendlies to come as the team prepares for the All Africa Games qualifiers set for June. The coach is confident that Kenya stands a chance at the continental show piece. “We have opted for early preparations as we build a team that will be a competitor and not just participants at the qualifiers. I believe we stand a chance to get back to the continental stage with early and properly structured preparations. We are avoiding the late assembling of the team which has been the norm in the past leading to shambolic preparation,” said the tactician. According to the coach, the 11 foreign-based players have shown interest but negotiations are still ongoing on their travel to join the rest in training. “We need to train as a unit so that when the competition comes, all the players are in sync,” he added. The last time the men’s team featured in the competitions was almost three decades with our best performance coming in 1987 when we played hosts and went on to finish fourth. At the time the team made it to the semis, current women’s national team and Strathmore University head coach Ronnie Owino was part of the successful squad and he believes the country has better players now compared to then. “We have very good players as the sport has grown since then. More players are playing internationally and if we can get them to play for the national team, we will have a strong side by June,” said Owino. He added, “The problem has been poor preparations over the years. The team needs to train together two or three times a week and we will be good to go. Support from the federation will also go a long way in ensuring the teams are ready for duty when called upon. ” Owino has also assembled a squad of 23 players for the women’s team, which started training on January 14. “We have been meeting once a week but we expect to increase the frequency as the competition nears. I am currently working with local based players only,” said Owino.