Barry Silah and Peter Sagini @PeopleSports11 Derrick Ominde and Albert Njogu have sailed into the ITF Junior Championships quarter-finals following their easy wins at Nairobi Club yesterday. Kenya’s second seed Albert Njogu beat Yabets Kebede of Ethiopia in straight sets of 6-3, 6-0 to move closer to capturing a debut championship. His work was made all the more comfortable following his opponent’s errors, which he capitalised on effectively. The first set was more of practice for Njogu who was last week’s losing finalist to Hungarian Peter Sally, as he toyed around with the frustrated Ethiopian player given his superior serve. In the follow-up set, it was all breezy for Njogu who hardly broke a sweat in the contest. Kebede’s countless mistakes on court meant Njogu earned winning points. His inability to handle pressure also cost him dear as he gave in to Njogu’s game plan. The Ethiopian starlet was however gifted few chances to shine and in between points showed his skill with the rare spins and slices plus backhands that got Njogu flat footed occasionally. “Mentally I went in prepared and I was happy with the way my game went. My opponent had his moment and fought but for me I made little mistakes. I look forward to improving in this last leg so that my rankings go up,” said Njogu who next meets Aly Shokeir of Egypt whom incidentally he beat at last week’s tournament in the third round. Meanwhile Ominde seeded eight in the tournament overwhelmed his Canadian opponent Ghouse Faisal 6-2, 6-1.The match which took exactly 50 minutes, saw the Kenyan player utilise his strength on serve to frustrate his challenger from word go. Inside 20 minutes, the Canadian ninth seed was left gasping for breath following Ominde’s attacking. The Kenyan who lost last week to Dutch player Thijmen Loof in the quarter-finals was a different breed on court ensuring he made fewer mistakes. The second set was solid as well for Ominde as he sought to assert authority. His big forehand and winners off the baseline meant in overall Faisal only picked three games in the match; as the Kenyan lad shut out the match in supreme style. “I feel the first break on serve frustrated him because I held well. I took chances and it went well because he made errors a lot. So far my mental part of the game and staying in point is looking great for me,” said Ominde who faces top seed Burundian Abdoul Shakur Kabura who has a 2-0 win record against the Kenyan.