Tana River County Commissioner Oning’oi ole Sosio has told public officers in the county to comply with the President’s Executive Order No 1 of 2019 to ensure the smooth running of government projects and programmes. Sosio warned heads of government departments and semi-autonomous government agencies against delaying implementation of the order, saying stern measures would be taken against them. He spoke at his boardroom in Hola town during the first meeting of the County Project Implementation and Coordination Committee that was created under the order issued by President Uhuru Kenyatta, early this year. “A Presidential Executive Order is not something to joke with as it has the powers of the High Court,” he said adding: “It is through an executive order that (former) President Mwai Kibaki repossessed the Kenyatta International Convention Centre (KICC) from Kanu.” Sosio said despite the national government implementing numerous development projects countrywide, there was a belief that only county governments were involved, hence the need for the committee. “There is a widespread belief that county governments are doing a lot, while it is the national government that is pumping billions of shillings to implement projects in counties,” he said. Sosio led the committee members, who included county heads of ministry department and agencies (MDAs) and semi-autonomous government agencies (SAGAs), through the Executive Order after which he directed them to report bi-weekly on all projects under their respective jurisdictions. He told the officers the committee was required to ensure the protection of public resources, provide evidence of fighting corruption, provision of Huduma Numbers through the National Integrated Identification Management System (Niims) and the government’s policy of 100 per cent transition of learners from primary to secondary schools among others. Sosio said the government had already taken action against some parents, who had married off their school-going children, and warned that parents and suitors would be equally held responsible when such incidents occur. Other mandates of the committee, the administrator said, include reporting on the progress of the county action plan on countering violent extremism, detecting radicals and radicalisers and reporting on all development programmes in respective jurisdictions, especially under the Big Four Agenda. Sosio said the committee would strictly follow the progress of all government projects and programmes implemented by MDAs and SAGAs in the county and ensure members of the public are made aware of the same. He urged the officers to cooperate by providing accurate information.During the meeting, committee members expressed concerns that many departments were not properly facilitated to carry out their mandates, with some citing lack of office space and equipment.