While some people like Ngugi wa Thiong’o are of the opinion that knowing the vernacular empowers people, others believe it is both retrogressive and a hindrance to the push for peaceful co-existence among various tribes in the country Betty Muindi @BettyMuindi In a post titled ‘Nanny wanted’ on her Facebook timeline, Purity Akinyi was categorical when she wrote down what she was looking for in her would-be help. But what stood out and attracted backlash and support in equal measure, was one requirement written in bold and underlined— ‘The lady must be a Luo and an eloquent speaker of the language.” A few of those in support of the idea said it is vital to teach their children mother tongue since it’s a form of identity and not learning it might mean that children would lose out on cultural identity and suffer alienation from their roots. “At 25, I cannot speak my mother-tongue and it bothers me. I blame it all on my parents, even though they were both Kalenjins; they did not teach me and my siblings our mother tongue,” posted one Cynthia Cherotich noting that her parents brought them up speaking either English or Kiswahili. The debate Cherotich is determined to learn her mother tongue at whatever cost. “I am still searching for a school that teaches my mother tongue. How will I say I come from a certain lineage or tribe if I cannot even communicate in that language? I would also love to marry someone from my tribe, thus understanding my mother tongue is vital for my future,” she adds. Those who opposed the idea argued that learning mother tongue is retrogressive and a hindrance to the push for peaceful co-existence among various tribes. “There is no point teaching our children their mother tongue since it will not do them any good in academics or in their work life later,” argued Francisca Muhatia, adding, “I don’t talk to my children in their mother tongue because I think it is useless. In today’s world, international languages give a person a competitive edge and that’s all that matters,” she retorted. Started in the year 2000, International Mother Language Day was meant to promote multilingualism. The theme for this year is Indigenous languages matter for development, peace building and reconciliation. Experts in the field of language argue that African languages are an important instrument of learning. Chris Odweso, training and quality editor, People Daily, says language is an important marker of identity and is more than simply used to communicate with one another. It Is also tied in with culture and a way of life for a community. “When you look at African languages, you learn that they help communicate different perspectives on life, relationships, spirituality, the earth, health, humanity… medium to pass down wealth of knowledge that cannot be expressed in English. When these languages die, that unique knowledge is lost,” Odweso says. Renowned Kenyan author Professor Ngugi wa Thiong’o once noted, “If you know all the languages of the world and you don’t know your mother tongue, that is enslavement. But if you know your language and add to it all the languages of the world, that is empowerment. The choice for us is between intellectual enslavement and intellectual empowerment.” Ngugi who was in the country recently to popularise his book Kenda Muiyuru said it is unfortunate that children in schools are discouraged from and even punished for speaking in their local dialect. Other schools advise parents to stop using mother tongue at home to help their children improve performance at school. However, he lauded the government for reintroducing local languages in the Competency Based Curriculum system, but insisted that more needs to be done for a significant progress to be made.The Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development approved the use of learning materials in various mother tongues through listening, speaking, pre-reading and pre-writing. They include Gikuyu, Kikamba, Dholuo, Ekegusii and Kigiriama languages. The rise of vernacular radio stations has also been critical in retaining and maintaining mother tongue. The collapse of communal ties in traditional African society and rise of individualism can also be blamed for the lost mother tongue. Now, worried about their offspring losing their tongue, some parents are enrolling their children in vernacular programmes. “I enrolled my children in a vernacular school around Upper Hill for two reasons; as a political strategy and, because I want my children to identify with the community when they visit people in the village,” says a politician from the Elgeyo Marakwet region. He regrets never exposing his now, teenage children to their mother tongue, “I have lived in Nairobi with my children all my married life, and the language of communication in the house was mostly English despite my wife and I both coming from the same tribe,” he poses regretfully. He says for the past three years, he has been sending his children to the village at every opportunity so they could learn and practise what they are learning at the language school. Indispensable pillar Among schools that are offering vernacular lessons in Nairobi are ACK Language And Orientation School, which offers classes in Kikuyu, Luhya dialects, Maasai, Dholuo in written and spoken form. Charges range from Sh600 per hour with a minimum of 60 hours required to learn the basics. International School of Kenya offers an after school Mother Tongue Programme from kindergarten to Grade12. Sociologist Albert Marango attributes the loss of mother tongue to urbanisation. Children today grow up in multi-ethnic urban settings that make the use of mothertongue appear out of place. The other prime factor is the adulteration of language in general. English, other foreign languages and Kiswahili have all been consistently ravaged by the Y-generation who are more at ease with Sheng and other forms of lingual corruption. He says mother tongue is an indispensible pillar of ethno-cultural identity. And for that alone, it needs need to be salvaged. “Teach local languages as an optional subject of choice in private institutions across the country where willing parents can enrol their children,” he explains. Intermarriages also contribute to a possible erosion of mother tongue. “This leads to dual-lingual marriages where the children have no specific orientation to rely on regarding their ethnic identity,” states Marango, adding that on the contrary, eradication of mother tongue may be a good thing in the sense of eradicating tribalism and ethnocentrism.