Bernice Mbugua @BerniceMuhindi The Teachers Service Commission (TSC)  wants court to set aside or review an order that suspended the transfer of Kenya National Union of Teachers (Knut) officials beyond the branch territory they are elected to serve. In an affidavit by chief executive Nancy Macharia, TSC claims  the  order has crippled its legal operations and mandate. Employment and Labour Relations Court had on January 2 suspended the transfer of Knut branch union officials beyond the geographic limits of the branch they are elected to serve. Mislead court TSC, however, claims Knut intentionally and willfully misled the court that some of the union’s officials in Kilifi, Garissa, Bondo, Gucha South, Rarieda, Nandi Central, Bungoma South and Vihiga were affected by the transfers. According to the teacher’s employer, the Registrar of Trade Unions had confirmed the said branches were yet to register branch officials. TSC argues that the order is final in nature and ought not to have been issued at interlocutory stage. “The court arrived at the order setting aside transfer of union officials without affording parties an opportunity to ventilate the matter to its logical conclusion,” states Macharia in court documents. TSC claims the order runs contrary to another directing parties to attend conciliation proceedings before a conciliation committee. The teacher’s employer further wants the court to set aside the order suspending the implementation of career progression guidelines. Development modules According to TSC, staying the implementation of the guidelines is not in the best interest of the teaching service as it will lead to demoting institutional administrators who have been deployed to certain positions on the basis of the guidelines “It will also stall appointment, placement and promotion of institutional administrators to fill existing vacancies,” says Macharia. TSC is also seeking the review of an order requiring parties to engage as per the Clause 12 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement towards appropriate Teacher Professional Development Modules and policy. It also wants the court to set aside an order that stayed the implementation of tools, process and procedures on performance management until parties agree and upon promulgation of the relevant regulatory provisions. According to TSC, the said order is contrary to good labour practice since it applies to a section of teachers in the employment of TSC at the exclusion of others. “The stay orders is negatively affecting the profession since it applies to a section of teachers in the employment of the TSC at the exclusion of others. It has caused inequality in the teaching service as teachers who are not members of Knut are currently under the performance management process,” added Macharia.