“It is not that we’re supporting what you did because that was a criminal offence and you’d have ended in jail. We, however, empathise with the circumstances that forced you to it.” Those words by Inspector Emmanuel Tamooh summed up what was likely in the hearts of most Kenyans witnessing the emotive case of Boniface Murage, a father forced by hardship to steal his daughter from hospital. Murage’s wife Vivian and infant were admitted to Kenyatta National Hospital (KNH) on January 26 and discharged on February 11. However, the Sh56,937 bill was too colossal an amount for the 22-year-old, who provides for his young family digging trenches and doing other menial jobs in Rongai. “I started worrying that my daughter and beloved wife would be detained at KNH forever since I could see no way of me raising the bill,” Murage said. And instead of taking the next matatu to an unknown destination like most young men overwhelmed by situations would do, he stuffed his month-old infant in a bag and tried to walk out the front door with it. The daring move came to a head when security personnel confiscated the paper bag in a routine check and discovered the young patient inside. And yesterday, Kenyans galvanised around Murage who silently wept in the dock as the judge read out the charges facing him. On social media, many likened the teary, red-eyed face of despair and hopelessness to that of majority poor Kenyans in the face of a hostile healthcare system. Kenyans like Inspector Tamooh, who was among the security team that responded to last month’s 14 Riverside Drive terror attack expressed their empathy in cash. The AP officer told journalists he wanted to settle the hospital bill but found out the same had already been paid. “I went to KNH this morning (Tuesday) where I was told a well-wisher had paid the bill. I then came to the court to give him the money because I had purposed it for helping him,” he said and also warned Murage to avoid contravening the law. “I want to urge you to avoid committing any crime however petty it may seem.” Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko, besides settling the hospital bill also offered Murage a job at the county. The sentence means Murage will be on State (police) watch for the three months and expected not to commit any other offence or he will be put on custodial sentence. Murage pleaded guilty to the charge on Monday. “Since the bill has been cleared, the scales of justice must balance. In this case the hospital has already been paid and so the scales tilt to the accused person,” the magistrate ruled. Speaking to the media after his release, Murage thanked well-wishers for clearing the medical bill incurred by his wife and daughter.