Wangari Njuguna The Nut Traders Association of Kenya (Nutak) wants the ban on harvesting macadamia extended by one more month to allow the nuts to mature completely and ensure farmers get good prices for the commodity. Nutak chairman Johnston Kihara said the move by Agriculture and Food Authority (AFA) to lift the ban on February 15 was ill-advised proposing that it should have been extended for one more month even has brokers tempt farmers to harvest immature nuts. He said  nuts have not fully matured and farmers might end up incurring huge losses due to premature harvesting. According to Kihara, the nuts should not be picked from the tree instead they should fall to the ground when ready. And as  processors rush to fill their stores with the nuts, Kihara said many farmers will be lured to pick the nuts so that they can sell to make quick cash. He said they had proposed that the nuts be sold at Sh300 per kilo but it appears this might not be possible. “Brokers are rushing to farms to lure farmers with quick cash and they are telling them to even harvest immature nuts “ he said. The brokers, he said, have been buying nuts for as low as Sh50 per kilo and Sh100 on the higher side. Kihara said the association had tried to negotiate with AFA over the harvesting dates without success. The association warns that if harvesting continues the sector could be headed for a collapse pointing an accusing finger at some processors and brokers out to fleece farmers. “Even when the ban was effective, some processors were buying nuts at night and this gave rise to theft from farms ,” Kihara said. Outlawing exports Kenya produces approximately 70,0000 tonnes of macadamia every year but close to half of this is smuggled out of the country in raw form despite Section 43 of the AFA Act 2012 outlawing exports of unprocessed nuts Kenya is the third largest macadamia producing country globally with Australia and South Africa taking the first and second positions respectively. Last week, the Macadamia Growers Association set the price of the nuts at Sh170 per kilo. The farmers led by their chairman Edward Mwiwawi said no farmer should sell their nuts for anything less that the set amount and also insisted that processors should go to the designated centres to buy the nuts. This, he said, shall give farmers bargaining power to drive prices up. “We have set the minimum price to ensure we get good returns from our produce and protect exploitation from brokers” said Mwiwawi.