Anthony Mwangi @PeopleDailyKe Investigations targeting two Cabinet secretaries said to have received kickbacks to award lucrative tenders to international firms have been extended to Europe. A team of Kenyan detectives and officials from the Attorney General’s office is in Rome, Italy to seek the assistance of local prosecutors to probe three companies, awarded tenders to construct dams worth Sh91 billion in different parts of the country. From Italy, the team will proceed to Ukraine and Romania to probe directors of companies involved in the sale of fertiliser to Kenya and are said to have bribed top ministry officials. Questions have also emerged on why Kenya has retained the Central European countries as sole source of fertiliser despite persistent  reports that the products from the two countries did not meet standards. Billions bribes Sources said one of the Cabinet secretaries received bribes to the tune of Sh9 billion to okay tenders for the construction of the dams. Compounding the matters is the fact that the projects in question are among a litany of white elephants that have stalled despite costing the taxpayer billions. It’s also not clear on what basis the CS received the bribes for projects which had not been cleared to take off. Yesterday, the Director of Criminal Investigations (DCI) George Kinoti confirmed his office had opened investigations into the projects adding that detectives have unmasked massive swindling and theft. “We have opened investigations into the projects. We have unearthed massive and brutal theft. Kenyans have been paying loans long stolen by thieves who go for billions. Investigations are ongoing and a number of people, including directors of foreign contractors and hosting agencies have been questioned,” Kinoti told People Daily. Queries for example have been raised regarding the circumstances under which an Italian company, CMC Di Ravenna won the tenders to construct dams worth Sh91 billion. The projects are Arror multi-purpose dam in Elgeyo Marakwet, at Sh38.5 billion, one in Kimwarer, Keiyo South constituency at a cost of Sh28 billion and the Itare dam in Kuresoi North, Nakuru county, at Sh27 billion. The directors were summoned by the DCI for questioning and one of them is said to have signed an affidavit explaining where the money paid as downpayment went into. According to a source, one of the directors, an Italian who holds controlling shares in the company, consented after investigators tabled facts confirming that underhand dealings took place before the tender was awarded. The projects under probe are in Uasin Gishu, Bomet and Kiambu. Detectives are particularly interested in the Sh4.9 billion down payment last year for the design of Arror-multi-purpose dam. The top official involved in the scam is said to have travelled to Italy where the reported hefty bribe he pocketed to sanction payment is one of the objectives of the team sent to Rome to undertake investigations. Interestingly the down payment was done even before the piece of land where the dam is to be constructed was acquired. The ability of the company to undertake the three projects to conclusion has been called into question more so after it was declared insolvent by the Court of Ravenna in December last year. “They had registered another company in Kenya with different directors. But what has happened in Italy has serious implications in Kenya,” said the source. Balala EACC date President Uhuru Kenyatta is said to have directed investigators into claims that Cabinet secretaries had circumvented the law in awarding tenders to rogue companies after facilitation (receiving bribes). Meanwhile Tourism and Wildlife Cabinet Secretary Najib Balala  is set to appear before the Ethics and Anti -Corruption Commission (EACC) to clarify a number of issues regarding a Sh100 million contract award to a firm involved in an expo that took place in 2017.