The more the economy improves the more Kenyans are taking up western inspired habits such as brunch, blind consumerism and worst of all, pet keeping. I have never had a pet in my life and cannot think of the time when I wanted one. I had a dog growing up and while I fed it and kept it healthy, it never occurred to me that it might require a name, so I never bothered with one. It was simply there to be a dog and bark at thieves. Now all grown up, I live in an apartment block that has a no-pet policy. I loved it immediately I read it in the lease agreement. My past place had no such thing and I, therefore, had the displeasure of mingling with those small white terriers people are so fond of nowadays. I see black families with dogs in their cars going shopping, something I only used to see with white people. It’s especially disturbing when I see a man with a dog, or even worse, a cat. My problem with people who keep pets is simple, pets are too much work for nothing. What you are essentially doing is conscripting yourself to servitude of an animal and severely restricting your lifestyle to accommodate it. In the so called developed world, people keep a lot of pets and they developed laws, such as the doggy bag. So when you are out walking your dog, as they are wont to do, and your dog desires a poo, as they’re wont to do, then you have to pick up that dog poo. And that’s what they do. A human being walks behind a dog and when the dog takes a dump the human picks it up. I don’t know about you, but I’m betting the dog thinks that the human is his slave. His human feeds him, shelters him, bathes him and even picks up his poo. This I consider completely inappropriate behavior for a being of the mental stature of a human being. Cats are worse with their incessant whining and entitlement. A cat will mew at you repeatedly to feed it until you either kick it or feed it. And if you feed it, it will demand that you rub it while it purs to sleep. So naturally I prefer to kick them. You can’t simply leave for two days without arranging for someone to come and feed them and you get anxiety when they fall sick as you would with an actual child. This is in my opinion a complete waste of human time, which would otherwise be spent doing anything else. The western countries are right, if you are stupid enough to want a dog as a pet, not as a guard dog as nature intended, then you should have to pick up after it. I can’t wait for them to enact that law here.