Fred Aminga @faminga Ugandan police have been urged to respect maritime agreement with Kenya to enable fishermen to go about their business with ease even as the neighbouring country increases her exports to Kenya. Kenyan fishermen have for a long time raised concerns over strong controls by Ugandan police, who cross into Kenyan watersand reportedly seize fish and equipment. Bilateral meeting Speaking in Nairobi yesterday during a bilateral meeting with Uganda, Kenya’s East African Community (EAC) Ministry Principal secretary, Dr Susan Koech, said the issue of harassment of fishermen within the Lake Victoria must stop. “We were able to get evidence that within specific days fishermen were harassed and we have asked our Ugandan police to respect maritime agreements, and on this issue, we are going to have an engagement on March 15 with the specific agencies from Kenya and Uganda, to resolve the issue,” said Uganda’s EAC Affairs permanent secretary  Edith Mwanje. The complex maritime issue, which arises from the fact that the deep waters seem more on the Ugandan side, while the waters where the fish breed seem more on the Kenyan side has been a bone of contention for a long time. The meeting which focused on contentious trade issues along the shared border also raised concern about ignorance of people living along the border. Porous borders “Trading of some goods between Kenya and Uganda does not attract taxes,” she said, adding that while trying to use the porous borders a lot of people find themselves paying dearly for the same commodities. Levies charged by Busia county as parking fee for trucks passing through the border also came into focus and the county will be approached for further discussion. The meeting comes shortly after members of the National Assembly Trade, Industry and cooperatives committee pointed out that milk and eggs from Uganda have flooded the Kenyan market putting producers of the two products in jeopardy. The Trade ministry said that the cost of production in Uganda is cheaper compared to Kenya predominantly because of high cost of electricity, hence Uganda was likely to pose stiff competition to Kenya. Statistics from the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics (KNBS) shows that the value of imports from neighbouring countries continued to increase having jumped by 42.64 per cent in the nine months through September amid flat growth in exports. KNBS reports show that goods worth Sh55 billion were trucked to Kenya from the EAC bloc compared to Sh38 billion in the same period in 2017 as the country continues to rely on her neighbours for food supplies. Imports from the EAC countries increased by nearly one-and-a-half times compared with Sh23 billion in the corresponding period in 2016. Growth in regional import bill is largely driven by landlocked Uganda where Kenya imported goods worth Sh41 billion between January and September 2018.