George Kebaso @Morarak The government has ordered the withdrawal of a peanut butter brand from the market for containing aflatoxin that exceeds allowed standards. In a certificate of analysis circulated on Thursday, the Government Chemist said Nuteez Peanut Butter, a product of Jetlak Foods Limited, has aflatoxin margins exceeding 10 units by an additional 14.1 units. Director of Public Health Kepha Ombacho ordered shops to stop selling the product. “Our attention is drawn to the presence of aflatoxin contaminated butter, Nuteez Peanut Butter, which is in the market. Certificate of laboratory analysis has shown that the butter is contaminated with aflatoxin as 24.08 parts per billion (ppb) which is above the maximum limit provided in the national standard,” he said. He further directed a scale up of surveillance on compliance of all food stuffs to the relevant food safety standards and regulations. “This should be sustained across the country,” he added in a circular sent to newsrooms. In an interview with People Daily, Ombacho said the analysis by the government chemist is a routine exercise by the the authorities to ascertain that foodstuffs are safe. He said a number of products were being monitored and once the results are out, it is the obligation of the government chemist to make them public. “But Kenyans should not panic because the government has already taken action,” he added. Jetlak Foods Limited said it has launched investigations into the “purported claim.” In a statement signed by the Company’s Quality Assurance Officer, Eunice Gaceri and Managing Director, Anup Bid they denied receipt of any correspondence from the Ministry of Interior and Coordinator of National Government. “We wish to re-assure our esteemed customers that Jetlak Foods Limited prescribes to the highest standards of quality and we remain committed to manufacturing the best quality products,” the statement reads in part. Consumer Federation of Kenya (Cofek) called on consumers to avoid the product. “Accordingly, we have activated the #CofekRedAlert on the product and urge consumers to avoid the product, exercise extreme discretion if they must used the Nuteez Peanut Butter as it could occasion serious health implications,” Cofek Secretary General, Stephen Mutoro said. He also urged all supermarkets and other retailers to recall the product from their shelves with immediate effect. “We have further requested the Kenya Bureau of Standards to conduct further tests on the product as well as other butter products to establish the aflatoxin levels,” he added. Attempts to reach the Kenya Bureau of Standards (Kebs) for comment failed to bear fruits as calls to the Acting Managing Director, Phoebe Gituku went unanswered. Kenyans had mixed reactions to the announcement. Whereas others expressed fear that they could be consuming toxins, others said it was unfair to condemn a product based on an analysis of one container. BelleCherie tweeted; “I have been using this and just bought more yesterday! May God help us.” John Abwao had a different opinion; “You cannot condemn a product based on analysis of one container of a product. This is very unfair and unethical.” Peanuts are highly susceptible to molds and fungus some of which are very toxic. A fungus called Aspergillus flavus produces a carcinogen that is twenty times more toxic than DDT, called aflatoxin. Aflatoxins have been associated with various diseases, such as aflatoxicosis, in livestock , domestic animals and humans throughout the world . Aflatoxins have received greater attention for their acute poisonous effects in humans.