Hellen Njeri Immediately after college or university, a starting salary that could be adequate in some towns can prove pretty tight in Nairobi. Needless to say, side hustling quickly become a necessary way of life in order to supplement a meagre income and shore up your bank account. -Build a side hustle on the back of your work skills The easiest, and most natural, option for padding a meagre salary is to leverage the skills you’re already developing in the office. For example,  a finance manager can supplement their income with a side gig as a spreadsheet consultant or auditor  for small businesses. “My spreadsheet side hustle perfectly complemented my full-time job as an accountant,” says Ken Mwangi. “Having advanced technical skills is one of the ways you can differentiate yourself from others.” -Pitch an overtime project that lets you prove what you can do You may not even need to leave your office in order to pad that low salary. Sometimes it just comes down to knowing which opportunities exist inside your own organisation. Ask your boss about the ins and outs of your company’s protocol on overtime, and then pitch yourself for additional projects. Don’t worry if they’re outside your department, either in fact, looking for ‘stretch’ assignments that take you outside your job description can help you move ahead in the company. Not only will you pick up some much-needed extra money this way, but you’ll also be able to demonstrate your ability to level up in your career and get promoted. -Volunteer in exchange for free classes If you are a young professional, you will have to pay for professional classes. But if you offer to handle extra work in your organisation you can make an extra coin. Offering to volunteer in exchange for classes can work well in a variety of places. Sometimes there are even formal programmes based around this type of trade-off. -Master your time-management skill In his book, Robin Sharma ‘The Monk who sold his Ferrari’ he describes time as precious commodity and to be highly respected. “Time slips through our hands like grains of sand, never to return again. Those who use time wisely from an early age are rewarded with rich, productive and satisfying lives. Only 20 per cent of your time, dedicated to the day-to-day activities, yield lasting results that could influence the quality of your life,” writes Sharma. To start with create a time audit and find out where your time actually goes. You may believe that you only spend 30 minutes on emails, but in reality that task is eating-up an hour of your day. The easiest way to keep track of your time is to download an app like my app calendar to track everything you do for a week. You can then access a report to find out what’s stealing your time. With this information, you can then make the appropriate adjustments. Secondly, make a to do list which you have to follow ruthlessly. Then you will find out that you actually have a lot of time to do personal development tasks which will earn you more money and wealth eventually.