Amos Abuga @PeopleSports11 Three years on, the National Olympics Committee (NOC-K) cannot extensively divulge into the happening of the bungled Rio Olympics, and as results are resting all their hopes on the wheels of justice to turn albeit slowly for the sake of sports people in the country. In a collective message of moving forward together, NOC-K president Paul Tergat is ebullient; his team which has been in office for slightly more than a year has picked the lessons and is quickly implementing various formal and informal recommendations on how best to manage future games. “Allow us to move forward for the sake of the sportsmen and women who are ready and like every other sportsperson focus on the next competition,” a conscience stricken Tergat told the press. “Some of this matters are still pending in court, as a country let’s move on because then truth has to be established, we therefore have an obligation to soldier on and start preparations for the next Olympic Games,” said Tergat. On the 2020 Olympic Games in Tokyo, Japan, NOC-K is cognizant of the fact that funds are required to prepare, participate in the qualifiers and mostly importantly continue polishing for Olympics, acting Secretary general Francis Mutuku has revealed that the body will give each participating federation Sh500, 000 for the preps. “It is common knowledge that we (NOC-K) are currently strained as we try to clear previously accumulated debts, the important this is that we have set aside Sh 12 million the federations to help them with the qualifiers,” Mutuku, while referring to the 23 affiliated federations disclosed. Riding on the wave that no federation is fringe, the NOC-K executive team is contented that Kenya should stop burdening Athletics Kenya (AK) for medals at major events and therefore urged all federations to up their game during the qualifiers and send strong teams that would make the country proud. “We have local, continental and even global qualifiers, for the so called smaller federations, with little or no stats to be used in selecting athletes, 2019 should be used a s abase year. We must strive to make good use of the 18 months we have, “Mutuku revealed. In the short time the Tergat-led team has been at the helm, the body is self-praising for successfully entering three major Games. “The Commonwealth Games, African Youth Games and Youth Olympics have all been successful. But most importantly, we have learnt that very many Federations struggle with qualifications to the major Games. Whereas the government comes in to support in some instances travel to these Games, this support comes when most of our Federations have lost the only opportunities available for qualification.