Francis Muli Several people are counting losses after falling victim to property scams. But do we ever learn anything from the perennial painful tales? May be some of us. The latest deal to go south is between Diamond Properties Ltd and its investors, who are claiming to have lost millions of shillings in several greenhouse deals. This is why before buying or investing in property, it is important to carry out due diligence. Here are some tips on how to go about it: 1.Consult clients who came before you These are the people who have firsthand experience with the real estate/property dealer. They know whether the firm is genuine or not, so their information should come first. In the aforementioned issue, investors for phase four project discovered that most phase three investors had not been paid, according to reports. 2. Never rely on media adverts to make your decision The media in this case is doing business, but the responsibility of authenticating solely lies with you. The media has a responsibility in the stories they carry, but not on adverts. Once informed about such a deal, go an extra mile to do your own due diligence. 3. Due diligence Go to the land registry and know who owns the property you want to buy or invest in. Some of these properties have cases pegged to them, hence the owners want to dispose them. Some may be on public land. Once you buy and you are caught up in the tussle, ignorance is no defense against the law. Always avoid property owned by third parties being sold through dealers. Research about the performance of previous investments in the field, since most marketers are very convincing even when it is apparent that there is no future for the project. 4. Read terms and conditions They say the devil is in the details. Most Kenyans rarely read and understand the terms and conditions of any deal. Remember, “By signing you agree to our terms and conditions”. It is one of the most important parts of a deal. The rules are meant to ensure that both parties are protected in case things go wrong. 5. Inform your family Billions of shilling in unclaimed money and assets lie idle, with some of it being exposed to fraudsters. When you invest inform your next of kin. In case of death your property may be resold or grabbed if your family does not know it exists.The family can also help you make a good decision regarding the investment.