Benard Gitau @benagitau The government will announce in the next few days if it will ban the manufacture and use of plastic bottles. Environment Cabinet secretary Keriako Tobiko said the move is prompted by lethargy and cavalier attitude by the industries dealing with plastic bottles. Tobiko accused manufacturers and industries under Kenya Association of Manufacturers (KAM) of disregarding a framework of cooperation on take-back-scheme with the government. “We gave KAM timelines to operationalise the scheme but unfortunately, the government is not satisfied over the lethargy and cavalier attitude by industries,” he said. He accused the industries and companies of caring more about their balance sheet against environmental concerns. After the ban on plastic carrier bags by the government two-and-a-half years ago, Tobiko said KAM pleaded with the government not to ban plastic bottles and promised to embrace the take-back-scheme. A framework of cooperation on the scheme outlining the industries will be collecting the plastic bottles was entered between Ministry, National Environment Management Authority (Nema) and KAM. “The framework is reviewed after three months but the latest review is not pleasing. The government patience is running out and we will take legal action,” Nema director general Geoffrey Wahungu said. He said KAM has created an entity called Petco Kenya that collects pet plastic bottles but its capacity is limited. Meanwhile, Tobiko said KAM take-back-scheme has only 170 small pet plastic bottles firms in the country that has more than 900 industries. “In a couple of days, we are going to issue a directive that all manufacturers and dealers of pet plastic bottles must belong to a take-back scheme. It will be a compulsory requirement,” said Tobiko. He added that the ministry will also announce other administrative interventions to drive the 4Rs campaign of reduce, reuse, recycle and refuse if possible. Implementation of take-back scheme was set to start in May last year but it was shelved to give KAM time. K KAM launched a Petco sector group through a clean-up exercise of Pet products at Uhuru Park Nairobi on December  15, 2017. KAM chairperson Flora Mutahi said – as at 2016, there were 176 plastics manufacturing companies actively contributing to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). She added that the plastics industry generated a turnover of  Sh100 billion and employed more than 60,000 people.