In the past two years according to industry statistics, Kenyan firms lost almost Sh100 billion to cyber attacks. Recent reports show many companies fell victim to cybercrimes in 2017. This was largely because of poor security measures taken by the corporations. Last year, the situation improved thanks to investments in cyber security. Below are some measures companies can employ to protect their data from hackers according to Cloud Storage and Security Insights 1. Identify the threats Basic threats like unauthorised access to your computer should be tackled immediately to protect data. Hackers are always looking for opportunities to invade privacy. Identify and deal with potential threats to your business before they cause harm. The black hat hackers are particularly elusive and create multiple malwares to access routers that cripple a company’s systems. Spread of viruses is usually identifiable when there is a clog or slowdown in internal systems. 2. Be wary of cybercrimes Always work like you expect an attack. This will allow you to ensure that your corporation is covered at all times. Always keep records of which information is attractive to criminals. In addition to this, develop multiple strategies with proper risk assessments on a regular basis to ensure effective solutions should the need arise. Internal preparedness is therefore essential so that companies can reduce damages. Investing in a technocrat for advice helps a great deal. 3. Keep tabs on employees Keep your employees motivated and discourage them from leaking out crucial information. In addition to this, keep a backup of all the messages that are exchanged among employees. Check how they use passwords and keep these passwords safe from unauthorised personnel. You can use a password manager to generate and manage the pins. At the same time, constantly changing passwords gives you a solid safety net. 4. Use a two-factor authentication You can minimise the risk of getting hacked by using a two-factor authentication for your company which boosts security by having an additional step to access accounts. In this particular system, you have to enter a password followed by a code which is sent to your smartphone, something that only you have access to. This double authentication allows you to protect your data and discourages hackers from attacking. 5. Conduct audits on the regular When a company starts to grow and expand, one eventually reaches a point where it becomes crucial to secure your data. Have regular audits performed by cyber security consultants to protect the data. In addition to this, you can hire a full-time security officer who will be squarely responsible for handling all security-related problems and ensure the safety of your business. Thorough checks on systems especially external connections, need to be appraised so that internal damage is minimised. 6. Implement a strong sign-off policy In order to keep your company safe and secure from online threats, you need to develop and implement a strong sign-off policy for all employees. This sign-off policy should ensure that employees return laptops and mobile devices before they leave the premises. In addition to this, the email addresses you use must be encrypted so information does not leak and data remains confidential. Many companies have suffered irreparably for assuming this bit and for trusting employees. 7. Protect vital data Always protect the most sensitive information. Data which is vulnerable and can be targeted by hackers should be protected first. Keep a check on how this crucial data storage is being accessed by staff and make sure that it cannot be accessed by anyone without authorisation. Double check the procedures that you use to lock the data. Most companies have back-up servers to keep hackers at bay or utilise secured cloud addresses so that in the event of any breach, clones can be designed and data recovered. 8. Carrying out risk assessments Conducting cybersecurity risk assessments on a regular basis in order to mitigate the risks is a no-brainer. There should be a separate department in the company that is dedicated entirely to minimising the needless risk of data loss. Risk management is one of the key factors that contribute to the growth of your company. 9. Insure against cyber attacks There are many companies that offer insurance policies against cybercrimes and attackers. This is a good investment for your company as it covers all the risks and threats that arise because of hackers and viruses. Since you can never fully protect your company from attacks, it is, therefore, essential to have an insurance cover. 10. Have in-depth knowledge on risk factors The more knowledge you have about the risks involved in your business, the better security measures you will employ. You have to understand the nature of your business and conduct research regarding all possible threats that might harm your corporation. Plan systematic audits for your company in order to keep your company clean from all sorts of viruses and build a detailed overview of the rules and regulations that all employees have to follow to ensure the safety of the business. After compiling the results of the audits, develop and implement security strategies accordingly in order to reduce the risks that you have identified.