Karen Karimi and Harriet James @PeopleDailyKe A male melanistic leopard has been captured on camera in Africa, for what is thought to be the second time in a century. Black panther has been everywhere in recent years but spotting one of the animals the famous superhero is named after in the African wilderness is a little more rare.  Wildlife photographer Will Burrard-Lucas managed it. Very few images of these iconic, secretive creatures exist. Burrard heard rumours of a black panther—which is a loose term for a black leopard or black jaguar, depending where in the world it’s from—at the Laikipia Wilderness Camp in Kenya. After following leopard tracks through the undergrowth with a guide called Steve, Burrard settled on a place to set up his Camtraptions camera traps.  “I’m quite used to doing camera traps and not actually achieving anything because it is such a speculative thing, you don’t know if the animal you’re trying to get is going to come down the trail that you’ve set the cameras up on,” he said. Paul Gathitu, Kenya Wildlife Service spokesman, said melanistic leopards have been seen in Kenya in the past, mostly in forest areas. “They do exist but rare to spot,” he said. Gathitu said the black cats have been spotted in Aberdares forest in Central Kenya and are also found around Cherangany hills in Trans Nzoia county.   At Ol Jogi Conservancy in Laikipia, they have a jaguar that is caged and as well as rare specie of the brown bear from Russia. George Dipaloy, a tour guide at Mugie Conservancy says the panther had been seen a while back but the research was released the other day. “Locals have been seeing black leopards for a long time here.” The sighting of the Black Panther has been received with excitement in the Laikipia tourism circuit. “This is exciting news here in Laikipia though it’s not the first time that they’ve been seen here,” said Charlotte, a representative of Sosian Lodge who insisted on a single name. “Though they are rare, it’s a misrepresentation to say that the black panther has been seen for the first time in Kenya in a 100 years. It has been here many times, seen by the locals at night, as it’s nocturnal. It’s just that we haven’t had professional photos of it,” she added. Donna Perrett, owner of Mugie Camp said  melanistic leopards in Laikipa have been seen for a long time. “It’s just the first time there has been good photo evidence,” she said. This is the second black panther to be spotted in Laikipia after a similar discovery was recorded by then Nation photojournalist Phoebe Okall in 2013 at Ol Jogi Conservancy. At first Will and his colleague were not sure whether the tracks they were following were those of the black leopard or a regular spotted one.  “I never get my hopes up, and after the first couple of nights I hadn’t got this leopard and was beginning to think I would be lucky if I get a photo of a spotty leopard, let alone this black one.” On the fourth night though, his luck was in.  “I don’t think it sank in immediately what I had managed to achieve, it was such an unusual subject. “Usually on these camera trap photos with the flash you see the animal very clearly. But as it blended in with the black night so well all I could see was these eyes staring out of the picture.” Additional reporting by BBC