I can count the number of times I’ve been to the diaspora, diaspora in this context meaning Rongai. A few years ago I got a chance to go to the Smiths Hotel. I couldn’t complain. The next time I went to a hangout joint called Legend. My last time in Rongai, I had gone to a wedding at the Smith Hotel. It had been a funny journey. I was in those buses hired for wedding guests, so naturally, along the way we got lost and we got to the wedding unfashionably late after an exhausting journey. Ben, our mutual friend, lives in Rongai and he had hyped this place where he wanted to turn up, to which we reluctantly agreed. If you don’t live in Rongai, then you would understand the hustle that comes with going there. Ben’s sister had planned a surprise birthday party for him and we were all supposed to assemble there. From the CBD, it takes about an hour depending on the traffic intensity, but it always seems much longer. The hotel is located along Ole Sane crescent off Magadi road in Rongai. First thing I noticed upon arrival was the décor, which incorporates both an urban yet corporate theme. I had a welcoming drink at the reception.  At the reception, there is a huge painting, which complimented well with the colour coordination. It was close to 7pm and dinner was about to be served. I could tell the place was recently renovated and the property looked far from old. The décor was surprisingly attractive to me because I found it quite subtle and rustic.  We headed to the restaurant area. There you’ll find a mid-sized menu, however, on this day, we had a buffet and small treats. I had spaghetti Bolognese with a beef burger. The burger was topped with beef bacon and onion rings. The meat was super juicy. There was also nyama choma dipped in barbecue sauce.  That was actually my favorite.  Well before the evening started I had sparkling sake. I must note that the staff at the restaurant were great and went an extra mile to offer a warm touch to the whole experience. I enjoyed every morsel of food inside the restaurant, and that’s saying a lot! Next to the restaurant is the Sepeko bar and bistro, where all the usual tipple including evening cocktails, beverages, and canapés are served.  The bar offers soft drinks throughout the day. After the party, we were escorted to our rooms. My room had a queen size bed and I loved the calming colour themes with throws of rustic décor. The room had large windows that overlooked the gardens. I was impressed with the spacious bathrooms though they only had a shower stand. The next morning, I had a swim and you can also relax beside the pool if you don’t intend to get wet. The property also has a gym and spa. My two favorites. I noticed that there were a lot of people using the gym, who I later learnt were members. Lots of people that live within the vicinity get memberships. However, those that are staying at the hotel get to enjoy all these amenities as part of the package. The Smith has 73 rooms, which include Standard rooms, Smith Superior rooms, Honeymoon suites and The Smith Presidential suite, all at different rates. The Smith is ideal for weddings, parties, and also team building. In retrospect, the place didn’t disappoint. It’s the little things like the quality of food and service, which puts the place over the top. They didn’t miss a beat and I would recommend to anyone visiting the ‘diaspora’.