Kirinyaga county is ready to host the forthcoming Devolution Conference, the Council of Governors chair Wycliffe Oparanya has said. Oparanya, who is also the Kakamega Governor, said upon inspecting the conference venue and various other facilities required for the purpose, he had no doubt in his mind Kirinyaga will  be able to host the event. Briefing the media after inspecting Kirinyaga University grounds which will be the venue for the sixth conference, the CoG chair said the 6,000 delegates who will attend have their accommodation taken care of. “Since this is the first time this conference will be held at a rural county, the delegates will also be accommodated within neighbouring counties such as Embu, Murang’a and Nyeri, and as such we can guarantee them of  the comfort  of the hospitality facilities available,”  he said. Accompanied by his Vice Chair Mwangi Wa Iria, Oparanya also confirmed the conference, which   runs from March 4 to 8, will be graced by President Uhuru Kenyatta, his Deputy William Ruto and the former Prime Minister Raila Odinga. “Since this conference will bring Kenyans from all walks of life together, it will also be used as a case study of the way citizens have positively embraced the Handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and the opposition Chief Raila Odinga. Earlier on, Oparanya and his entourage paid a courtesy call on his colleague Anne Waiguru at her Kutus town county headquarters where they held a closed-door consultative meeting. “As a county we are all set for this historic occasion to be held in our area. I am assuring the delegates that  their daily needs will be well taken care of including feeding, group travels and accommodation,”  said Waiguru. Waiguru who was accompanied by her Deputy Peter Ndambiri said  the delegates will be able to tour the Mwea Irrigation Scheme which is the home of the popular aromatic pishori rice and sample the delicacy. “Other than the rice scheme, there are other tourist attractions and activities which the delegates might wish to engage in such as rafting, canoeing and kayaking on Sagana River which forms the boundary between Kirinyaga and Murang’a counties.