Barry Silah @obel_barry It might only be Round Two, but the battle lines are all too clear in the Kenya National Motocross Championship. The top class riders showed grit and energy at Jamhuri Park on Sunday to see the standings begin taking shape. Ethan Nyachae in the MX2 class looks imperious in his new 2,500cc KTM bike while the rivalry between Samuel Magwa and Nandi Kiplagat in the MX85 class is turning out to be one to watch out for. Nyachae is on the form of his life and this far, has yet to lose a heat. The teen sensation was at it again in bullish mood as he took on the dusty and hilly racing terrain against his biggest nemesis Rolf Kihara. The first two heats were straight running for Nyachae who missed his class championship by a whisker last year. The numerous faults and manoeuvres by Kihara saw the overall winner take full control and advantage points to see him in good stead. However, in the third heat, the two astute riders went head to head in all corners much to the joy of the onlookers. At one point they swapped positions with Nyachae miscalculating a move at one of the bends before three laps later he took over after Kihara and Kigen Kiplagat were battling hard against each other. Eventually Nyachae sniffed an opportunity and attacked the final lap with booming speed and accuracy to clinch the overall challenge. “I feel great so far and I think my execution strategy worked well for me. I just concentrated on my race and basically had fun out there,” Nyachae told People Sport. On the other end, MX 85 Championship leader Samuel Magwa had his own battle against up and coming female sensation Nandi Kiplagat. The first two heats were eerily close between the two rivals as they chased each other along the corners and hilly intersections with the latter emerging runners-up. Kiplagat who is an aggressive rider piled heat on the exciting Magwa right from start but her undoing was proper calculations, which made Magwa taking control. However a recharged Kiplagat stole the mat under her opponent’s feet with quick timed laps in the last heat. Meanwhile in the MX 125 class,  Tai Wahome was in his element after winning all heats on the day.