Gor Mahia’s terrific start to CAF Confederation Cup group stage was dampened by a 2-1 loss to Petro Atletico of Angola in Luanda last night. The full time score line was so ironic as K’Ogalo dominated the hosts but came out losers in the end. Possession and sleek passing by the Kenyan club counted for nothing as they miserably failed in the final third while their opponents were ruthless in executing the few chances they created. Playing away from home without a natural right back and defensive midfielder partly contributed to two lapses that Petro Atletico exploited in the first half to bury the game. Against the run of play, the hosts took the lead rather fortuitously as Charles Momanyi gave away the ball close to the Gor  danger zone. Petro Atletico seized the moment to stage their first attack. Manxui Quiberto timed his shot well and directed the ball into far post to beat a slightly advanced Boniface Oluoch. K’Ogalo were stunned by the goal and they reacted by upping the ante. Midfield partners Kenneth Muguna and Lawrence Juma bossed the centre with Francis Kahata roving all over. They created openings for striking duo of Erissa Ssekisambu and Mustafa Francis who fluffed the chances. A lapse in concentration by makeshift right back Joash Onyango granted Petro Atletico a second beautiful chance in the 31st minute. This time, however, Oluoch dived full stretch to slightly tip the ball off course. The spill was fired in the side netting with Oluoch still sprawled on the pitch.  Gor’s misfortune increased eight minutes to half-time as Petro Atletico scored a second goal with a point blank header from Toni Rossa Ribeiro. Onyango had been cleaned on the right for the pin point cross to be floated. A bewildered Gor coach Hassan Oktay reacted by substituting Boniface Omondi with George Odhiambo before half-time ostensibly to give his side impetus going forward but the Angolan club were happy to carry a two goal buffer into half time. They nearly got a third goal four minutes into second half as Onyango was once again beaten spectacularly before a dangerous cross found Ribeiro again. This time his point blank header found Oluoch rooted in the right place and he smothered it albeit with difficulty. Nicholas Kipkirui was introduced ten minutes into the second half for ineffective Mustafa Francis as K’Ogalo sought a way back into the game and he pulled one back for Gor in added time, heading home Muguna’s long ball from midfield but it was too little and too late for the Kenyan side.