Harrison Kivisu and Munira Mandano @PeopleDailyKe The government will not give a tax waivers to hospitality industry during the low season, Tourism Cabinet secretary Najib Balala has said. Balala said the government has invested heavily to improve infrastructure and therefore there is no reason to request for waivers. Hotel and resort owners have been asking the government to initiate tax waivers to enable them to stay afloat when the low-season bites. “I think the government has done enough in infrastructural development at the coast therefore the ball is on their court,”said Balala. The CS, however, asked tourism sector players to support its plans to rebrand the coastal destination in a bid to make it distinct, to attract more tourists and enhance sector growth. He also announced that his ministry has embarked on a national parks revival strategy to boost annual revenue generationRevenue generations from wildlife products ballooned from Sh3.3 billion in 2017 to 3.5 billion last year. Already the ministry has earmarked 10 national parks for rebranding and improving products status. “We want to amplify these wildlife products in our parks. Already, 10 national parks are in the 2019 programme,”said Balala. He was speaking on the sidelines of the tourism stakeholders summit held in Diani. Balala also challenged coastal counties to develop programmes aimed at addressing harassment of tourists by beach boys. He said tourists visiting coastal hotels have continued to complain over harassment by beach boys who stop them from enjoying their holiday along the sandy beaches. He announced that zoning of coastal destinations is ongoing to ensure visitors get the best experience. “We are zoning the beach into five distinct zones: Diani, Mombasa, Watamu, Malindi and Lamu,” he said. Balala emphasised that hoteliers must focus on enhancing the beach experience, product development, as well as integrating local communities into the sector so that they are at the forefront to defend the sector. In a plan that seeks to ensure significant sector growth, the CS asked county governments to develop programmes aimed at rebranding and repackaging beach destinations. Kwale governor Salim Mvurya assured the Coast tourism stakeholders that he will support efforts to rebrand the regional tourism products to meet international standards. “Like in Diani, our beaches have been voted five years in a row as the best beaches in Africa and that title has really improved the industry,” said Mvurya.