Fred Aminga @faminga Budgetary cuts in sectors that ought to  spur manufacturing sectors are a threat to the achievement Big Four agenda. This emerged yesterday during a presentation of the Budget Policy Statement 2019/20 by the State Department for Industrialisation to the National Assembly departmental committee on Trade, Industry and Cooperatives. Industrialisation Principal Secretary Betty Maina said budget cuts and austerity measures have reduced cash meant even for development projects. The department estimates that it has since accumulated Sh315.8 million in pending bills including Sh50 million for the Kenya Industrial Training Institute. It was allocated proposed Sh7.3 billion of which recurrent expenditure is Sh2.8 billion and development expenditure Sh4.5 billion but the department outlined shortfalls in funding key projects. The projects which have suffered include modernisation of foundary plant and machining workshops, Athi River Textile Hub, construction and refurbishing of constituency development centres and even cash meant for provision of credit to small and microenterprises through Kenya Industrial Estate. This despite the government deliberately centring manufacturing in the Big Four  Agenda, to steer the country back on the fast track towards realising Vision 2030. “We are working hard in line with the Big Four agenda. But wish there was more money put in place to support enterprise, incubation and rural production centres,” she said, adding that the allocations are skewed and needs to be tweaked to boost industrialisation. She said the shortfalls have delayed achieving targets under the Big Four agenda for manufacturing, delayed completion of projects, increased costs due to costs associated with delays and penalties and non-provision of affordable credit to Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs). Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE) chief executive Parmain ole Narikae said it was unfortunate for the sector because it seems the ceiling in cash allocations were not well aligned with the Big Four agenda. “That is the crux of the matter,” he said, adding that KIE had proposed to get Sh3.2 billion spread out in three financial years, which it would use to lend to SMEs which would help create 30,000 jobs. Apart from inadequate funding for projects, delays in release from the exchequer, multiple taxation regimes and illicit trade of counterfeit goods were other areas of concern raised by the PS. The PS asked the committee chair Kanini Kega to facilitate the ministry’s budget to fast-track the completion of infrastructure at the Export Processing Zone worth Sh1.3 billion. She also asked for Sh500 million for the completion of leather infrastructure for SMEs at Kariokor, completion of Industrial Research Laboratories at KIRDI Kisumu and Nairobi worth Sh332 million and Sh2 billion respectively. The PS also requested for Sh454 million for provision of industrial credit to the SMEs and Sh400 million for One Village Product Programme.