Four Kenya international athletes are among 74 police officers promoted for excellence in their area of specialty, Police IG Boinnet says. The four have been garlanded by the police force they represent in national events and also for their performance in international events while representing the country. Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet said Elijah Manangoi was promoted to the rank of Inspector, Geoffrey Kamworor to Sergeant, Beatrice Chepkoech to corporal and Robert Wachira to the rank of sergeant. In his statement, IG Boinnet explained the officers had been promoted on merit and for their participation in representing and bringing glory to the country during international events. “They excelled in performance of their duties as police officers and athletes and that has the country proud,” he said. The lanky Kenyan has, arguably, proved the most versatile distance runner of his generation. Besides his twin success at the biennial World Half Marathon Championships he has also scooped back-to-back World Cross Country titles, claimed 2015 world silver on the track over 10,000m and proved a formidable competitor over 42.2km as evidenced by his victory in November’s New York City Marathon. Little wonder he’s known as ‘The Man of all Surfaces’ amongst his peers. Back in early 2014, Kamworor was fully focused on a strong showing in February’s Tokyo Marathon. Yet after stuttering to sixth in 2:07:37 he sought a fresh challenge and suddenly turned his attention to the World Half Marathon Championships just five weeks later in Copenhagen. Manangoi, a recent discovery on the international scene after winning gold during the IAAF World U18 championships in Nairobi. He competed in the 1,500m at the 2015 World Championships in Athletics in Beijing winning the silver medal and at the 2017 World Championships, where he won the gold medal. World 3,000m steeplechase record holder Kenya’s Beatrice Chepkoech made it to the final five athletes vying for the 2018 IAAF Female Athlete of the Year Award. Chepkoech, who is the Continental Cup and Africa 3,000m steeplechase champion. The other officers are from Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI), Kenya Police and Administration Police.