PERPETUA ADOYO If you are having a hard time dating, then this is the event for you. In speed dating you get to spend a few minutes chatting with one person, then move to the next and after you will get to judge who is more suitable to you. Date: 9th February Time: 3pm-6pm Venue: Kenya International Conference Center Entry:  Sh1 on the JUMIA WEBSITE  FASHION HIGH TEA The most anticipated annual event where people from all walks of life come together for a good cause in the name of Fashion. A percentage of the tickets Will go to a charity helping build communities around them. Venue:  Zen Garden     Date: 16th February    Time: 2pm -7pm Entry: Sh6,500 MUKURU ART EXHIBITION There will be an art exhibition at Mukuru Art Club this Saturday. This art exhibition is not just about the glamour, but rather about helping children around Mukuru slum with the proceeds from the sale of the art. Mukuru Art Club strives to help the community around them and all are welcome to participate. Date: 9th February Venue:  Mukuru Art Club, Aoko Road, South B. Time: 3pm-8pm Entry: Free KEMPINSKI VALENTINE FOAM PARTY A party like no other, an exclusive foam party with Champagne, flow of prime canapés and music to keep the party going. Venue:  Kempinski Hotel, Poolside. Date: 14th February Time: 4pm-7pm Entry: Sh5,000 per person VALENTINE LOVE FEST A Valentine plan for lovers set by Radisson Park Inn to be held on the 14th of February. There will be a live music band, an array of cuisine, as well as a bed and breakfast deal set to a romantic ambience. Venue:  Radisson Park Inn Date: 14th February Time: 9am-11pm Entry: Sh4,500 THE EROLL FASHION FOOD FAIR The Eroll fashion food fair is an event that seamlessly combines fresh organic produce and contemporary fashion to promote ethical fashion. The place to be this Saturday to enjoy both worlds is at Lord Eroll restaurant. Venue: Lord Eroll Restaurant Date: 9th February Time: 9am- 5pm Entry: Free NAIROBI ROCK MUSIC FESTIVAL One of the best folk punk bands in the UK, The Ferocious Dogs, will be performing in Nairobi this Saturday at the Carnivore restaurant. They will be supported by local acts such as Rish, Rash, Refuge and DJ Eddygrim. Venue:  Carnivore Restaurant Date: 9th February Time: 6pm- 3am Entry: Sh1,500 ODAOMO COLLECTION LAUNCH Odaomo are launching their new collection this Saturday with the theme ‘Dunia, a collection of harvest.’ The exclusive fashion presentation will take place between 2pm-3pm accompanied with music, cocktails and canapés. There will also be special offers for those who RSVP. Date: 9th February Time: 12pm-4pm Venue: Bata Hilton (pickup) Entry:  Sh1,000 GOING GUFY Gufy is a poet who is known to experiment with ways to express his poetry. This Saturday he will be at Michael Joseph Centre expressing his poetry through music, bad puns and visuals. If you want a new experience in poetry then mark the date. Date: 9th February Venue: Michael Jospeh Center Time: 6pm-9pm Entry: Sh1,500 ENGAGE 23: WHAT’S LOVE GOT TO DO WITH IT The Engage 23 event is a discussion panel that deals with various social issues in our society in the form of storytelling with unique perspectives. This weekend join the discussion with various personalities such as Jimmy Gathu, Pete Odera, Aggie Yahuma and others as they tackle the subject of love. Venue:  Braeburn Theatre Date: 9th February Time: 6pm- 10pm Entry: Sh2,000