Lynette Matheka @peoplesport11 Sabo Kalsi emerged overall winner in the first leg of KCB ‘Road to the Karen Masters’ tournament held at the par 72 Sigona Golf Club over the weekend to lead the first batch of six qualifiers to the two-day KCB Karen Masters Pro-Am events slated for June 25-26. The handicap 20 player posted an impressive 41 points made up of 21 points in the first nine and 20 at the back nine, to beat a huge field of 204 players. On his way up, Kalsi sank in two birdies on holes 2 and 10, pared holes 9 and 17 and bogeyed the rest. “I bogeyed a number of holes but the few pars I made really helped me. I am honored to have qualified to take part at the Pro-Am tournament. Thank you to KCB for nurturing amateur golfers by giving us this opportunity to play in the Sunshine Tour golf series,” said Kalsi. Other qualifiers from Sigona were men winner Ishwar Aldasani playing off handicap 24, guest winner Lee Mungai playing off handicap 22, staff winner Ogola Azu playing off handicap 26 and lady winner Milka Mburu playing off handicap 26. The sixth qualifier from the club was Jolly Esmau who becomes the first player in this year’s series to win the wildcard. The wildcard slot was decided following a lucky dip conducted on all the score cards returned by the playing field. The next round of the Road to the Masters heads the Nyali Golf and Country Club on March 30. The Nyali tour will feature professional players, who missed the Sigona leg as they were playing at the Safari Tour at Karen. They will compete for a prize fund of Sh 2 million for the next four legs. In Karen, Greg Snow shot an impressive round of 2-under par 69 to take the lead after Round One of the tournament. The Muthaiga golf club player got off to a slow start, picking up a bogey on the par-4, third before recovering with back to back birdies on the par-4, fifth and the par-5, sixth for a turning score of 34, having held par on the other five holes. He looked to be on course for a score of 34, after hitting a birdie at the 12th, before dropping a shot at the par-4 18th, for a back nine score of 35. “I am pleased with my performance today. The course is in great shape and quite challenging with the narrow greens. I am now working towards keeping this form going in the coming rounds.” Snow said. Justus Madoya and amateur Daniel Nduva returned impressive scores of one under par on the round to tie for second place.