Irene Githinji @gitshee The Commission for University Education (CUE) has directed universities with unapproved, but running, programmes to commit themselves in writing to have them accredited. CUE chief executive Mwenda Ntarangwi issued the directive and urged students not panic about the programmes they are already enrolled in. In a statement to the newsrooms yesterday, the commission explained that Universities Standards and Guidelines provide that each programme be supported by a minimum of two lecture rooms for a four-year programme. He said that last November, the commission received a request  from Kenya Universities and Colleges Central Placement Service (KUCCPS) to validate undergraduate programmes offered at all local public and private universities. KUCCPS also asked CUE to assess capacities declared by each of the universities for placement of government-funded students for the 2019/20 placement cycle. To advise KUCCPS on its request, Ntarangwi said the commission initiated a routine data collection exercise on the availability of academic resources in universities for programmes in various local universities. Overall, CUE subjected 1,828 programmes to the special examination arising on the placement service’s request. “The aim was to triangulate the data with the capacities and confirm validity of the programmes declared at the individual universities. The commission’s decisions were based on facilities as well as programmes on offer as at August 2018,” Ntarangwi said. And based on preliminary examination, CUE raised some basic compliance issues with some of the programmes. He said the compliance issues were contained in an initial non-conclusive working document that formed the  basis for further consultations with CUE and individual universities ahead of the commencement of the selection process this February. “The Commission has worked with the relevant agencies to ensure that the compliance issues raised against the majority of the programmes have been addressed. As a result,  the Commission allowed the Placement Agency to admit students to the affected programmes in the 2019/20 academic year,” he said. However, he explained that the Commission has delayed admission approvals for a few new programmes, where there have been no students enrolled before in the 2019/2020 academic year.