By Diana Kendi It’s 7.30pm here at Ilkimati village in Ilaramatak, Narok County. Agnes Kinaiyo, 14, and her siblings are busy studying. Smoke is hovering around the house, but these girls are still determined to excel in their studies. They are using firewood for lighting the house, which enables them to study. “We’ve been using firewood as light ever since I was born in this village. At times when we are lucky  enough, we use a one battery torch. But when we don’t have money to buy the battery which only lasts for a week, we resort to our normal sticks which we use for lighting,” says Nayauesupat Kinaiyo, Agnes’ mother. Agnes Kinaiyo is among the 16 candidates for this year’s Kenya Certificate of Primary Education, KCPE examination at Ilkimati Primary School. She’s determined to be among the best candidates. However, the firewood light or at times torch light is what she uses to study. But that has not deterred her from pursuing her education. “I have never seen a lamp in our home ever since I was born. I usually study from 8pm to 11pm using firewood in the kitchen area. And that has been our norm,” Agnes adds. Ilkimati residents have never seen or heard of paraffin being sold in the area, hence the reason why they use firewood for lighting purposes and not lamps as many may prefer. According to Mr. Samson Napikue, the headteacher for Ilkimati Primary School, learning has been difficult for pupils living in Ilkimati Village. Most of the time they are forced to remain in school at night to be able to finish their homework because the school has solar panels which provide light. “Ilkimati Primary School is not a boarding school. However, pupils come to sleep here and go home in the morning to prepare for the day. They don’t have lamps at home, hence the reason as to why they find it easier to spend their nights here studying and finishing their homework,” Mr. Napikue adds. The headteacher claims that the challenge of not having good lighting in the homesteads in Ilkimati has really affected the completion of syllabus on time. “Most of the teachers end up not covering the whole syllabus because it slows the speed of teaching in terms of lesson plans and schemes of work. For instance, class 6, 7 and 8 are always behind,” he adds. But Agnes Kinaiyo is among the luckiest pupils in the area. Their house is among those selected to receive a solar lantern from World Vision in conjunction with Panasonic, in a project dubbed as Off-grid Solar Solutions in Narok County. This is after Panasonic donated power supply stations, solar storage devices, solar lanterns and other lighting equipments during a launching ceremony in Ilkimati community in Narok County. “The locals here have been living in poorly ventilated manyattas, affecting their eyesight, especially the children. This is a 20 Million pilot project that World Vision is spearheading, sponsored by Panasonic. We intend to supply 150 homes in Ilkimati with the solar lantern that will last for 6 years. The Solar lantern will be used for lighting and also for charging their phones. The residents have been taken through the training on how to manage the solar lanterns. All they need to do is to ensure that they wipe the lenses with a soft cloth,” says Alfred Otungo, the Area Programme Manager for World Vision in Narok.  Moreover, the off-grid solutions project will help to power hatcheries in the eggs project done by Ilkimati women, as well as in the irrigation project which will enable the locals to get a variety of foods and prevent their children from suffering from malnutrition. The project will also benefit the Enkutoto Dispensary, which will now be able to provide regular immunization to the locals. This is because there will be constant supply of power. Previously, they used to have power shortage causing the fridge and sterilisation not to run smoothly. According to Francis Sialala, the nursing officer in charge of Enkutoto Dispensary, he normally receives cases of old ladies and children less than 5 years suffering respiratory tract infections, which at times lead to tuberculosis especially for the old ladies. “Smoke and respiratory tract infections is a problem especially to women because they are always lighting firewood in the house and using it for cooking purposes too. We normally receive almost 10 cases of eye problems per day, while out of 25 – 30 patients we receive in a day, 15 of them suffer respiratory tract infections. When the infection complicates, it doesn’t respond to the antibiotics which we provide here at the dispensary,” he adds. The organisations also installed 25 solar panels at Ilkimati Primary School, which will last for 25 years. “Our biggest now is to have a boarding section in this school for pupils who live far away from school, now that we have enough electricity. This will attract many pupils in the area to join the school. Our school has a population of 240 pupils and this is because many people in the area don’t understand the importance of education,” Mr. Napikue says. Back to Agnes, her siblings and her mother. They are now a happy lot! The solar lantern has been installed in their house. “When I came from school, I found some kind of bright light which I had not expected. I hear it’s called solar lantern. Now we won’t be using our kitchen room for studies anymore, we’ll be using our bedroom, and that entices me! I am so happy!” Agnes exclaims! “I am happy I have good lighting. I can now see well while cooking and even my children can use it to study. They will no longer be affected by smoke,” Agnes mother says joyfully.