Wangari Njuguna @PeopleDailyKe A group of Mt Kenya politicians  yesterday launched fresh attacks against politicians from the region who are campaigning for Deputy President William Ruto’s election in 2022. The leaders, who call themselves Mt Kenya and Diaspora Leaders Forum, accused Ruto’s allies, popularly known as the Tanga Tanga team, of defying President Uhuru Kenyatta’s call for an end to early election campaigns. MPs Maina Kamanda (Nominated), Ngunjiri Wambugu (Nyeri Town), Paul Koinange (Kiambaa), Muturi Kigano (Kangema), Naomi Shaban (Taveta) and several Nyeri and Muranga MCAs said the leaders should heed the President’s call or leave Jubilee. Saying elected Tanga Tanga team leaders owed their victory in the 2017 election to Uhuru, the politicians demanded that they respect the President. Former Dagoreti South MP Dennis Waweru said Tanga Tanga politicians had forgotten “too fast how they hung on the President’s coat tails to be elected”. “Jubilee politicians’ support the President is not negotiable and we will go to all counties in the Mt Kenya region calling out those who don’t,” he said. Shaban said every region had its kingpin and asked Mt Kenya region leaders to respect Uhuru. The leaders also expressed their concern that rampant corruption might cripple the economy and called for a thorough audit of Cabinet secretaries and governors. They also proposed stiffer penalties for those found engaging in corruption. Kamanda cited claims of Cabinet secretaries alleged to have solicited  bribes from foreign contractors to award tenders. He asked the Directorate of Criminal Investigation to act swiftly and have all the suspects arrested and charged.The former Starehe MP, however, accused the Judiciary of frustrating  national efforts to fight corruption. “Unless we see the Judiciary acting on these corruption cases, the feeling will always be that there is nothing much being done to stem the vice,” he said. Koinange proposed the death penalty for corruption convicts to deter others from the crime. “Other countries execute people found culpable of corruption and the same should be done here,” he said.