As intrigues surrounding the Sh63 billion phantom dams scam unraveled, it has emerged that  unnamed senior politician using proxies made a cool Sh5.3 billion profit, from an initial Sh1billion investment. And in just two months! At the heart of the scheme to raid the public coffers that involves two public entities — Kerio Valley Development Authority (KVDA) and National Land Commission (NLC) — is the politician who used proxies to buy the  200-acre bush land for Sh1billion only to sell the same for Sh6.8 billion to the government for the project.   So by a stroke of a genius — or even prophetic intuition — he made a cool Sh5.3 billion profit in only 60 days! According to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations boss George Kinoti, the politician reportedly bought the land from Elgeyo Mills in 2016 in speculative deal but later sold it to KVDA at six times the buying price. In the unfolding web of intricate deals, the KVDA through NLC, then led by Mohammed Swazuri, paid the politician Sh700 million commitment fee, with the balance of Sh5.6 billion scheduled for payment by tomorrow (Thursday February 28). The Sh6.3 billion payments to the politician is part of the Sh21 billion the government paid to the   Italian firm, CMC di Ravenna, for the stalled Sh65 billion dams. The insidious deal has now cast  NLC into the spotlight for having expedited the “compensation” of the politician for the purchase of the KVDA land. Kinoti said the unnamed politician must have been privy to the government plan to purchase land at the dam construction site, prompting him to buy the land from Elgeyo Mills. The DCI, however, vowed that all the money would be recovered from the individuals involved in the scam. “It is unfortunate that the government is now being forced to repay a loan whose money is in people’s bedrooms,” he said. The Sh65 billion Kimwarer and Arror dams only appear on paper, while nothing is on the ground, despite billions of shillings having been sunk into the project. Cop-owned firms Yesterday, the DCI boss said the questioning of the officials of the firms linked to the scam commenced and they have so far been unable to produce the Bills of Quantities (BQ), design and architectural projection of the dams. The contract signed between KVDA and a joint venture of CMC di Ravenna and Itinera SPA on April 7, 2017, has also raised eyebrows. While KVDA managing director David Kimosop curiously represented the Kenyan side, a Mr Paolo Porcelli of CMC di Ravenna South Africa acted for the Italians. By yesterday, high ranking names among them former Attorney General Charles Njonjo, former head of civil service Jeremiah Kiereini and CFC Bank Limited who co-owns Heritage Insurance Company alongside eight other directors were lined up for questioning. Chairman of Airtel Kenya and Rift Valley Railways Consortium and former Kenya Airways chief executive Titus Naikuni is also wanted as a listed director of Heritage Insurance. Former Vision 2030 boss now Telkom Kenya chief executive Mugo Kibati, estate of the late former Cabinet Minister John Michuki and Sanlam Kenya PLC are sought as directors of Sanlam General Insurance Limited. Former Cabinet minister Simon Nyachae is also expected to appear for grilling as principal  shareholder of Millbrook Garments Limited.  Also mentioned is former South Mugirango legislator Manson Nyamweya of Kema (EA) Limited. Yesterday, Guy Spencer Elms of Tiles and Carpet Centre Ltd appeared at the DCI. Spencer is listed as one of the nine directors co-owning the company. First batch of directors adversely mentioned of profiteering from Sh63 billion kitty were questioned yesterday but majority made calls to the DCI’s Investigation Bureau office to register unavailability.  Others sent lawyers who were turned away. Those appearing were given specific days to present documentary evidence of bank records, invoices, contractual agreements justifying payment. According to insiders at DCI’s office, directors of the 107 firms will be grilled in structured manner on specific dates spread out to ensure all listed owners appear the same day. “The initial stage is to interview them to shed more light on how and why they were paid. Some were asked to supply materials at specific point and may have done it genuinely, not knowing the procurer diverted public money, ” a senior officer said. Payments made Some companies were summoned since the money trail of cash transfer, cheques and withdrawals emanated from primary beneficiary but are regarded as “essential in adducing evidence and building prosecution case,” another officer intimated. National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich, his Principal Secretary Kamau Thugge  and  Kimosop are also expected to record statements, as is Swazuri. On the ground, nothing has kicked off despite the payments having been made through facilitation of paper work from National Treasury and KVDA.