Amos Abuga @PeopleSports11 The government through the Ministry of Sports has committed to settle outstanding allowances owed to AFC Leopards players. Sports Cabinet Secretary Rashid Echesa believes the gesture will help the club whose results on the pitch have nosedived. Ingwe’ performances have been so bad to the extent that they are languishing in the relegation zone, sitting at position 17 with 10 points in the 18-team league. This led the club’s National Executive Committee (NEC) to come up with the ‘Rescue Committee’ to try and save the situation. Echesa revealed on Twitter that the ministry will offset the accrued allowances amounting to Sh1.7 million going back to last year, a statement that was affirmed by club secretary general Oscar Igaida yesterday. On the issue of players lacking medical cover, which was highlighted on social media, Igaida denounced it, saying the playing unit is well covered by health insurer AAR and the National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF). Igaida was, however, at pains to explain why the club is running around with begging bowls yet it receives over Sh50 million annually from betting firm SportPesa, who are their main sponsor. “It is common knowledge that the club has a sponsor but let me make it clear that the allocation coming from our financiers goes for fixed expenses, which include but not limited to player salaries, office rent, coach’s rent, daily expenses liking hiring the field and also fuel for the team bus,” he said. Igaida further revealed that the club has sought the services of a psychologist in an effort to motivate the players. “Psychologists help professional and amateur athletes to overcome problems, enhance their performance and achieve their goals. We anticipate that the players will get their confidence as soon as the next game,” added Igaida. New head coach Andre Casa Mbungo has also employed double training sessions during the week in an effort to improve the team’s performance. “The coach has hinted that the fitness levels have been low and that is what he wants to work on,” he said.