A suspect in the DusitD2 complex terror attack made 13 transactions, withdrawing Sh5.2 million three days before the attack, money believed to have financed the raid. Abdi Noor Hassan Nuh Nuh, who has since been arrested, is said to have registered as an M-Pesa super agent meaning he could make withdrawals of up to Sh400,000 in a day, said police sources. With a till number in his possession, Nuh would receive and transfer money to his bank with ease. “He had three days before the DusitD2 attack made 13 transactions of Sh400,000 at a local bank (name withheld) meaning he withdrew Sh5.2 million that day alone,” said a police source privy to the investigations. He had registered 47 SIM cards under different names which were used to receive and send money to the planners of three terror attacks in the country. The money, the source said, was wired from a base in South Africa. Investigators said the 47 SIM cards were “registered using different identity cards and names and were only being used on two handsets that were traced to Eastleigh. The police narrative is that he withdrew the money at the bank in Eastleigh that saw the branch manager, Sophia Njoki Mbogo, arrested. Police say Mbogo allowed huge amounts of money to be withdrawn via the bank without notifying the Central Bank as required in law. The source also told People Daily that the suspect was in contact with the attack chief suspect Ali Gichunge even during the raid before the latter was gunned down. Sources said Nuh, a Somali national who came into the country in 2017, was the key point-man and planner of the DusitD2 attack, the Garissa University College and the Mpeketoni attacks. Arrested He was picked up by police from his rented house in Roysambu where he has been residing since he came into the country and acquired a Kenyan national ID card. Yesterday, the Director of Criminal Investigations (DCI) George Kinoti, while confirming the arrest said detectives were making good progress in the matter. He said 20 suspects have so far been arrested in connection with the attack. On Friday last week, nine suspects were arrested in Mandera and have since been ferried to Nairobi for interrogation. Meanwhile, detectives have arrested the driver who ferried the terrorists to the DusitD2, the scene of attack which left 21 people dead. The man from Murang’a is said to have driven the terrorists from their hideout to the scene.  He fled immediately after dropping the five men. Another individual who is in custody is Ismael Sadiq Ibrahim who is believed to have been in constant communication with Gichunge and his wife Violet Kemunto. “His phone was actively used to send money to the attackers and we believe it was meant to fund terrorism,” police said, adding that they need to obtain all his financial records. Abdinoor Maalim Osmail, a lawyer, is the other suspect who police believe received Sh100 million in a period of three months.