Zachary Ochuodho @zachuodho The Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Kenya (ICPAK) has rejected proposals by the National Assembly to source for an international firm to audit the Office of Auditor General (OAG). The institute noted that it had qualified members who can audit OAG books of accounts, hence there is no need to source for expertise across borders. OAG’s office has not been audited for four years even as the tenure of the Auditor-General — Edward Ouko — comes to an end in August after serving a non-renewable term of eight years. “ICPAK has what it takes within its 2,000 membership to audit the Office of the Auditor General accounts and there is no need to source for the services of an international firm. We have the capacity within our membership as long firms and individuals with integrity are given the job,” the institute’s chairman Julius Mwatu said yesterday. ICPAK’s position on the matter comes after the Clerk of the National Assembly, Michael Sialai, asked the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) to allow him to procure auditing services from any of the Commonwealth countries. Sialai told PAC that three attempts to procure a local firm had failed to field fruits. According to Sialai, Kenya has a memorandum of understanding with Liberia to undertake the audit task. “As a way forward, we wish to propose to your committee that audit services from Commonwealth jurisdiction be procured,” Sialai said. Parliament had in 2016 rejected attempt by the OAG to appoint Baker Tilly Meralli, whom MPs argued could not undertake the audit due to the conflict of interest. Baker Tilly Merali’s is an international firm whose headquarters is in London and has branches in Nairobi, Mogadishu, Kampala and Kigali. The firm specialises in offering professional services in assurance, taxation, advisory and consulting services in the public sector. The Auditor-General’s books of accounts have not been audited for four consecutive years, from 2014/15 to 2017/18 financial year. Sialai said an advertisement placed in September 26, 2018, failed to return a positive outcome despite nine firms responding to the proposal. Speaking during the institute’s 27th Economic Symposium, Mwatu challenged Parliament to fast-track the scrutiny of an audit report of the national Budget presented by the Auditor-General so as to use it in allocating resources to counties. County funds He said revenue allocation to counties was pegged on the 2014/2015 audited report yet the Office of Auditor General has furnished the House with the 2016/2017 report on the Budget. “If the House used the latest report then more funds would be allocated to the counties and the issue of insufficient funds would not arise.”