BRIDE: NOELLE CHESIRO GROOM: INNOCENT MITHIKA DATE: DECEMBER 1, 2018 VENUE: BETHSAIDA PARK KIKUYU, KIAMBU COUNTY PHOTOGRAPHY: PHOTOGRAPHY BY KEGAN DÉCOR: EVENTS MADE IN KENYA CATERER: HADASSAH CATERERS How long did you date and what was the proposal like? Innocent: We dated for five years and six months. The proposal plan kept changing as I consulted my wife’s twin sister. There were uncertainties over friends’ availability. I eventually settled on having a dinner at my house. As God would have it, the lights went out that evening and that way, He made this Meru man romantic. We both cooked great food that evening and later had our friends; professional photographers and neighbours then, join us. That was December 27, 2017, and she said ‘Yes’. How did you settle on the venue? Noelle: We always desired to have a garden wedding, and we began hunting for a green spacious ground at a pocket-friendly price in the first quarter of 2018. Innocent’s immediate and extended family lives in Mombasa and Dar-es-Salaam. We kept trusting God for a venue within Kiambu, a neutral spot. Also, at the venue, the set-up was modified a bit. Initially, we were to have the church service on one of the smaller grounds that had a paved walk way, which was to be the aisle, but it rained! Our décor service provider and I decided to move the tent set-up to the reception area. How about the theme for your big day? Innocent: Noelle had total control when it came to décor. Quite frankly, I wasn’t ready to follow up on the details. Blue is our favourite colour, and she once stumbled upon a blue and white wedding set-up, and ever since, it has been her ideal colour combination. I was impressed with her choice of blue – turquoise. We also wanted a rustic theme, so we had a bit of it with old school lamps and tree stumps on the aisle. What was the planning like? We aren’t proponents of committees, so we shied off this method and instead approached few close friends and our immediate families for financial support early enough. We insisted on internal funding. It took us about 10 months to plan. Your bridal team was relatively small and did not have children. Tell us about that The bridal team was made up of our closest friends. It takes a lot more planning and supervision on the wedding day when you have kids on the line-up. We love our nieces and nephews, but for this reason, we decided not to have kids on the line-up. Why would you say your wedding was successful? Not just the wedding, but our entire courtship. We never received resistance from either side of the family, something we thank God for. We kept going for five years despite it being a long-distance relationship throughout. So, on that day, God was the reason behind the success of our love story. What was most memorable about your big day? I danced throughout. I previously had plans to avoid any intense dancing. Noelle is a former dancer, and her twin sister and one of her friends on the line-up are professional dancers. I was doomed to fail, but alas! I danced my way out of this problem. I’m thankful to God that I made Noelle happy in doing this. Noelle: Saying ‘I do’. I think I was smiling from ear to ear! And we danced our hearts out. Our team did not disappoint. And, Innocent danced! What stood out in your wedding? My husband! I could just see the joy on his face and he looked dapper! The sermon was also on point. Innocent: My wife! She was stunning!