Joyciline Jepkosgei is set for another milestone in her road running career as she is penciled for a full marathon debut in April 2019. The World Half Marathon record holder hit the big time in Hamburg, Germany during the Haspa Marathon. The 25-year-old’s venture into full marathon has been highly anticipated ever since she sensationally shattered four records in one race on her way to set an erstwhile unprecedented 1:04:52 over half marathon in 2017. Four of the records broken by Jepkosgei at the Sportisimo Prague Half marathon included 30:05 over 10km, 45:37 at 15km, 1:01:25 at 20km and the full race record. Jepkosgei went ahead and slashed one second over the 21km distance in Valencia, Spain setting the current 1:04:51 and greatly whetting appetite as her impending switch to the full marathon became a matter of when and not if. She then went back to Prague and shattered the 10km record at the Bireli Grand Prix, clocking a phenomenal 29:43. Her trailblazing season then cooled off from a niggling injury but she still persevered to back silver at the IAAF World Half Marathon Championships in Valencia, Spain on March 2018. Her meteoric rise to stardom in road running attracted plenty of attention from race organisers as full marathon beckoned. “My manager and coach both told me that Hamburg has a flat and very fast course so we chose to make my debut there,” she offered and revealed it took a lot of time and analysis to arrive to that race and date. Despite her already distinguished credentials on the road the 25 year-old set modest targets on her landmark debut. “I would like to achieve a time of around 2:22. But there are still two months of preparation to come between now and then. I have to wait and see how my body reacts to training. Once I get close to the race, say one week, I will see the kind of form I’m in then determine my final goal,” she added Hamburg organisers were quick to draw a parallel to another high profile marathon debut on their course, that of Eliud Kipchoge in 2013 when the Kenyan ace cruised to victory in a time of 2:05:30. Kipchoge has since gone ahead to conquer the category and is lauded as the greatest marathoner of all time. Jepkosgei, however insisted that parallel was never in her mind.