Seth Onyango @SethManex Orange Democratic Movement  (ODM) has expressed outrage at lawyer Kipchumba Murkomen after he was hired to appeal the party’s decision to expel Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa and her Msambweni counterpart Suleiman Dori. Murkomen who is also the Elgeyo Marakwet Senator appealed to the party’s National Executive Council (NEC) to rescind the decision it made last month that could cost the two legislators their seats. “The members pray to be accorded their rightful entitlement in the Constitution and the ODM constitution to appear represented by a counsel before the National Governing Council (NGC) within six months as provided by Article 8.4.5 of the ODM constitution, to defend themselves against the decision of the Disciplinary Committee and its approval by NEC,” read Murkomen’s letter in part. However, ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna accused Murkomen, who is also the Senate Leader of Majority, of ignorance, saying there is no provision to appeal the council’s decision. “It is frankly embarrassing for your clients to claim to be champions of the values and aspirations of ODM when they have no basic knowledge of the constitutive document of the party,” Sifuna said. “We suggest that you and your clients take time to familiarise yourselves with the constitution and rules governing ODM to save yourselves from such ignorant misapprehension in future.” Sifuna accused Murkomen of quoting sections in the party’s constitution that do not exist. Contacted by People Daily, he said the duo’s expulsion was cast on stone and was only awaiting ratification by the party’s NGC. On December 4, last year, the ODM disciplinary committee recommended the expulsion of Jumwa and Dori over allegations of gross misconduct. It also preferred the expulsion of Homa Bay MCAs Dan Were, Evans Marieba, Julius Gaya, Geoffrey Juma, Paul Ongoro and Joshua Nyabola over alleged unruly behaviour. Jumwa and Dori’s expulsion has largely been seen as resulting from their association with Deputy President William Ruto. In June, the MPs declared support for Deputy President William Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid sparking outrage among ODM members. In October, the two were summoned to appear before the disciplinary committee over their support for Ruto when ODM leader Raila Odinga has presidential ambitions. Announcing the dismissal decision, Sifuna vowed the party would no longer tolerate misconduct by members.