Seth Onyango @SethManex A Nairobi tycoon has fled to Zambia to evade a Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) dragnet over an alleged Sh3 billion tax evasion, it has emerged. Sources at the DCI told People Daily police have received intelligence that Humphrey Kariuki had sought refuge in Lusaka, Zambia, to avoid arrest. Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) officials said  Kariuki has not remitted Sh3 billion in taxes. Detectives believe the businessman may have gotten wind of their pursuit and chose not to return home to answer to the charges on tax evasion and fraud. DCI boss George Kinoti urged Kariuki to return home and surrender himself to authorities for questioning. “We suspect he is stuck there and looking for a way to safely return. Tell him he is wanted for questioning,” he said. It is not clear if the government has  sought his extradition from Zambian authorities but detectives are said to be seeking help of Interpol to bring him back. Kinoti confirmed the process to extradite Kariuki to face charges of mass production of harmful brews and causing death are under way. “He can hide for years, but let him know we are determined to have him back to face the charges. We are on his trail 24 hours a day. We can’t allow him to use his wealth to destroy the lives of Kenyans,” Kinoti said. The move comes even as Kariuki’s close associates are reportedly seeking legal advice from various prominent lawyers at his instruction on the way out of the muddle. Kariuki is said to have massive investments in liquor business and also imports leading global brands, including Zappa, Bacardi and Southern Comfort. Those produced in his Thika-based Africa Spirits Ltd are Bluemoon, Legend brandy and Glen Rock whisky. Last week, detectives found smuggled ethanol and some 312,000 litres of illicit liquor as well as 21 million fake KRA stamps which would have seen the government lose Sh1.2 billion. KRA Commissioner of Intelligence and Strategic Operations Githii Mburu told a local daily their records showed Kariuki hadn’t remitted tax amounting to Sh3 billion. “We found about 21 million counterfeit stamps at the factory. That means the commission would have lost Sh1.2 billion. In one production shift, the amount of tax lost is about Sh93 million,” he said. KRA says the government fetches Sh200 in tax from a litre of ethanol, a key ingredient in manufacture of alcoholic drinks. Since 20,000 litres of smuggled ethanol was found at his factory, the government is said to have lost roughly Sh4 million per day. Kinoti revealed the ethanol is smuggled from Tanzania. Kinoti and KRA officials led the 11am raid at Africa Spirits Ltd in Thika town in Kiambu county and arrested the production manager. Kariuki, a reclusive and astute businessman has built his business empire Janus Continental Group, one of East Africa’s largest conglomerates. Always known to avoid public limelight, Kariuki’s business empire includes The Hub—a premier shopping mall located in Karen; Africa Spirits, currently embroiled in a controversy with authorities over the manufacture of alcoholic and beverages; Dalbit Petroleum, one of the largest oil distributors in East and Southern Africa; and the Great Lakes Africa Energy, a UK-based company that develops and operates power projects in Southern Africa. 