Seth Mwaniki @MwanikiM More than 800 coffee farmers in Mathira, Nyeri County, are set to receive Sh100 for every kilogramme of the produce sold after securing a direct market. The growers, from Ndaro-ini coffee factory (processor) and affiliated to Gikanda Coffee  Society, sold more than 600,000 kgs of their cherry produced last year to Troboca BV of Netherlands. The buyer has already wired Sh72 million into the society’s account according to the factory management and promised to pay Sh120 a per kg out of which Sh20 will be deducted to meet operation expenses. Muriithi Maina, who is serving as a link between the buyer and farmers, said sourcing a direct market simplifies a tedious payment process for farmers. “Farmers have been suffering due to unnecessary bureaucracies in the coffee sector, so fruits of side-stepping them is what we are witnessing now as they are able to get pay immediately other than waiting for long periods,” Muriithi said. The tradition dictates that farmers through a general meeting identify companies to do milling and marketing for them. However, Ndaro-ini farmers defied the process and went ahead to identify a direct buyer, a gamble they say has now earned them more than the amount that they received from sales of the crop last year. Last year, the farmers received Sh78 for every kg sold. A farmer at the factory, Joseph Mukuha, said the move will help them get back to their farms to produce more, adding that they now feel fully motivated. “The path we have chosen is extremely good for us as farmers. We shall continue selling our produce directly as this is the only way we are guaranteed of maximum benefits,” he said. In attempt to ensure that farmers are assured of a minimum guaranteed price for their produce, the first and the late Governor of Nyeri County Nderitu Gachagua had during his reign laboured introduce a pool milling and marketing initiative for all farmers in the county. However, his move was sharply resisted by private coffee millers and marketers who say it is an attempt to push them out of business.