James Magayi @PeopleSports11 Gor Mahia regained leadership of CAF Confederation Cup Group D following a deserved 2-0 victory over NA Hussein Dey of Tunisia at Kasarani Stadium yesterday. They left it late to win the duel after a feisty first half in which the word blunt best described Gor Mahia’s attack, but later gave way to a pulsating second bearing action from end to end with the hosts looking menacingly dangerous whenever they attacked. K’Ogalo controlled the game without really cracking the visitors defense. Having snatched a brave draw away to Zamalek 10 days ago, the Algerian team came close to another famous point in the campaign, which would have greatly bolstered their chances of qualifying for quarterfinals and consequently hurt Gor Mahia’s. Hussein Dey thrived on timely, last ditch interventions to thwart Gor Mahia throughout. Five times they made sliding challenges to block K’Ogallo’s attempts. They defended excellently until the 84th minute when Francis Kahata breached their defence with a thunderous strike to break the deadlock. The chanting Gor fans were almost losing hope as they watched every cross, mostly from Shafik Batambuze nipped in the air by Hussein Dey’s towering goalkeeper. Gor Mahia even made all their substitutions but scoring chances still seemed to be a tall order. Then a slight change of tact saw K’Ogalo finally start threatening. Their crosses, initially high and deep in opposition goal area, became low and slightly further from the goal area. Six minutes from time Batambuze made another one of his trademark forward forays and floated a clever ball which Hussein Dey back line managed to repel but only as far as Kahata who’s wild shot took a deflection as it went in the net. The stadium erupted with the hosts celebrating as opponents berated match officials. One of the tirades on centre referee earned Hussein Dey’s Abdeghani Khiat a straight red card and Gor Mahia used the numerical advantage to add a second goal almost immediately. A small scuffle ensued as visiting bench invaded Gor Mahia’s technical area. The visitors lumped the ball forward from a goal kick and the a repellant header towards Hussein Dey goal set Jacques Tuyisenge goal-bound and he made no mistakes, shooting low in the middle of the goal for Gor Mahia’s second. He had squandered the Gor’s first clear opportunity to score in the 13th minute. Faced with just the goalkeeper after Nicholas Kipkirui did the donkey work and squared the ball into his path, the Rwandan shot feebly with his left foot and goalkeeper Zakaria Bouhalfaya gathered. Samuel Onyango, preferred on the wing at the expense of Boniface Omondi was also guilty of three missed chances as Gor Mahia ended the half on ascendancy.