Kinyuru Munuhe and Bernice Mbugua @PeopleDailyKe Sharply contrasting viewpoints have emerged over circumstancing surrounding the death of human rights activist Caroline Mwatha whose body was found six days after she was reported missing even as post mortem scheduled for yesterday was deferred, prompting uproar and street protests. While family, friends and colleagues suspect foul play and link her death to the nature of her work that included putting the police on the spotlight over extra-judicial killings within Nairobi’s crime-infested Dandora area, police post a totally different scenario, rolling out sets of circumstances that tie her death to a botched abortion after which the body controversially turned up at the City Mortuary. According to text messages obtained by police, the deceased was in an intimate engagement with one of the suspects now in police custody. The messages show Mwatha communicating with somebody saved in the phone book as Alex on Wednesday last week from 9:31am to 5:47pm. The exchange details communication between her and the said Alex and at one time, the human rights activist indicates that she is “back in hospital and Sh6000 is required.” To which a response;  “poa, treatment ni saa hii ama” (alright, is the treatment now or?) is given. The message further indicates Mwatha was in excruciating pain. “Nishafika hosi pray for me and I love you (I am already in the hospital pray for me and I love you).” These are among the exchanges police extracted from the phone. However, Mwatha’s family questioned police claims of a botched abortion with her father Stanislus Mbai dismissing it altogether. One of the suspects in police custody named as Craig Rayola reportedly ferried Mwatha’s body to the KNH police post at around 4 am in a taxi registration KBF 677B and claimed that his wife (Mwatha), had died after a short illness. He went ahead to book details of the incident under OB number 04/07/02/2019 where he gave her name as Caroline Mbeki. The driver of the taxi in question Godfrey Maina is also in police custody. After booking the details in the police OB, Rayola transported the body to City Mortuary where he once again booked it as that of Caroline Mbeki. And as details of circumstances of Mwatha’s death unfolded, the six suspects linked to the death were yesterday detained for 14 days to enable police to conclude investigations. Michael Onchiri, Betty Akinyi, Richard Ramoya, Alexander Gitau, Georgia Achieng and Stephen Maina will be detained at different police stations. Makadara Chief Magistrate Heston Nyaga allowed the suspects to be detained following an application the police. According to Chief Inspector Joseph Wanjohi, the suspects were arrested on February 12 in Dandora. In the meantime, the City Mortuary roundabout was yesterday the scene of fierce standoff and ugly scenes as protestors, friends and relatives engaged police in running battles over postponement of the autopsy that had been scheduled for yesterday. Family members led by Mwatha’s father Mbai and deceased’s husband Joshua Ochieng demanded a postmortem examination be done yesterday even as it emerged that there was no government pathologist available as Chief Government Pathologist Dr Johansen Oduor was said to be in Naivasha. “ I am not ready for this. What are they trying to hide? My wife is very sick back at home. She fainted and she’s in bad shape. When she gets to learn what we are being told, do they also want to kill my wife for me to have two corpse at home?” Mbai complained. “We have never seen Caro with a pregnancy, she was not pregnant, how can she have been aborting?”  Mbai posed at the mortuary. I have looked at the body. She has a deep cut on the thigh and stomach, is that abortion?” He also questioned why her phone had kept ringing during the time she was missing, and said he had received a missed call from her number during the time she was reportedly already dead. The Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti said investigators have so far linked her death to botched abortion, adding that they had established that Caroline died at the clinic before the body was transferred to City Mortuary on February 7 at 4.42am. Kinoti said Mwatha had been communicating with a boyfriend who sent her Sh6, 000 to procure the abortion. Kinoti said the boyfriend Alexander Gitau works in Isiolo and was in constant communication with the deceased relating to an intended abortion of a five-month old pregnancy. “It is believed that an abortion procedure was procured by the owner of the clinic namely Betty Akinyi Nyanya and one purported “Dr” Michael Onchiri alias Dr Mike,” said Kinoti. But Mwatha’s Dubai-based husband would hear none of it: They claim there was abortion. How can you carry out abortion after five months? If there was abortion, they’re using it as a cover up. Carol has a deep cut on the thigh,” Ochieng insisted yesterday. Haki Africa lobbyist Khalid Hussein threatened to mobilise for demonstration until justice is done over Mwatha’s death.