The most-anticipated ladies golf event in Kenya, the Ladies European Tour (LET) Pro-Am tournament, teed-off on Friday at the Par 72, PGA-accredited, Baobab Course of the Vipingo Ridge featuring 13 members of the LET who were paired with 36 Kenyan lady amateurs. The event, which runs across two days, is a pre-cursor to a fully-competitive LET event which shall be held in Kenya later this year, and which is excepted to draw the participation of ladies from Kenya and the East African region. Speaking ahead of the event, Vipingo Ridge GM, Mike Round-Turner said: “We have been fortunate to attract thirteen members from the Ladies European Tour to the PGA Baobab Course on their way from the Fatima Mubarak Ladies Open in Abu Dhabi to the Australian Ladies Classic Bonville in Australia. 36 very lucky amateurs will join the lady professionals as they play the Baobab Course.” The visiting lady professionals include 29-year-old Florentyna Parker, England, who has won three times on Tour, winning the ABN AMRO Ladies Open in 2010, the Ladies Italian Open in 2014 and Estrella Damm Mediterranean Ladies Open in 2017. She finished T44 at 2015 Women’s British Open and 75th at the ANA Inspiration in 2018 – both events are LPGA major championships. She is currently ranked 33rd on the 2019 LET Order of Merit. Parker was a member of the 2017 Solheim Cup team. Among the invited Kenyan lady amateurs is Naomi Wafula from Kitale Golf Club who is a graduate of the Rose Naliaka Golf Academy. She will not only have a front-row seat to professional golf but will also have a chance to test her skills against the world’s best. Other junior golfers participating in the event include Kenya’s best male amateur golfer, 23-year old Daniel Nduva a +2 handicap golfer, Andrew Wahome, 13-years and now playing off a 9-handicap, Zayad Din, Nathan Wanyama and Rumil Jayasinge – all 14 years old. The Vipingo LET Invitational is organised by Vipingo Ridge in partnership with U.Com Media the official television broadcaster of Ladies European Tour events. Safaricom and the Kenya Tourism Board have also supported the event. U.Com will use footage from this Vipingo event throughout the 2019 LET season, giving Kenya’s golf tourism a much needed boost in the arm.