The National Assembly has halted the planned takeover of Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA) by Kenya Airways (KQ) after it emerged that the deal was being struck by a cabal of “powerful and  faceless” individuals. It also emerged that instructions for the takeover were issued by Transport Principal secretary Esther Koimett, who asked Kenya Airports Authority (KAA) managing director Jonny Anderson to act on a Cabinet decision. Appearing before the National Assembly’s Public Investments Committee (PIC), the KAA boss said he was called by Koimett  and handed a letter instructing the board to complete the takeover as soon as possible. He added that he acted on the instruction despite being in the dark over the deal. “During our meeting with Koimett, she told us that there were express instructions that the takeover be completed without delays,” he added. MPs pressed Anderson to shed light on the takeover to no avail before directing that the takeover be halted pending determination of the matter by committee. Anderson said KAA on November 18, 2018 sought advisors on technical and legal considerations of the takeover, which involved allowing KQ to operate JKIA for 30 years and invest further if the proposal is accepted. Delivering the PIC ruling, chairman Abdulswamad Nassir said the advisor, MMA Consortium, that had already been paid 10 per cent—Sh15 million of the agreed Sh150 million fee for the consultancy— be stopped from proceeding its work. The committee also invited the Auditor General to conduct a forensic audit on the planned takeover and give a report in a months’ time. Legislators also asked KAA board chairperson Isaac Awuondo, who is also managing director of one of the banks owed huge amounts by KQ, to step aside pending the determination of the matter. Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa said it was in the interest of KAA and his own integrity that Awuondo should leave office as Parliament probes the takeover. But Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria protested the move to discuss Awuondo, saying more than seven banks were owed by the national carrier and cautioned the committee against targeting him. Kuria told the committee that stopping the takeover process was not only “ill-advised but preemptive, presumptive and out of order”. Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter, who brought the petition before the committee, said  the takeover was illegal because the KAA Act, Cap 395, prohibits ownership of airports by private entities.