Even before an expose hits the newsstand or makes headlines on TV and radio, people will certainly have had grabbed it on social media. Chebet Korir and Grace Wachira explore the new heights of perpetrator and victim shaming business over social media Chebet Korir If you have watched American teen drama web television series 13 Reasons Why, then you know how character Hannah Baker exposed the people she thought were responsible for her death. While at it, you will find pondering whether social media exposes are just cases of cyber bullying or a new way to bring darkness to light. Not all that glitters is gold, and no one knows it best than Fadhili Wilkins Odinga, whose life was all but a rollercoaster until he got exposed for allegedly leading a con life. A smooth operator that he was, Fadhili was able to sift through tight cooperate procedures, from being featured on Safaricom’s Blaze youth empowerment programmes, all the way to appear in Business Daily’s 40 Under 40 list of successful Kenyans. The unmasking However, Fadhili was to be unmasked by a popular Nairobi blog for deceptively representing celebrities, so as to further his career under his brand, Fashion Torch Africa. He presented himself as a brand strategist and a start-up developer who would further and build careers for upcoming fashion lovers and various celebrities. This, however, came to a halt as one, Larry Madowo publicly came out and denied any relations with him. He wrote on his social media pages: “I don’t know who this individual is and I’ve never met him. I’m taking legal action, so don’t get conned using my name.” This post sparked a lot of controversy with other media personalities who shared their views and also denied having any relations with Fadhili. Popular music group Elani also dismissed Fadhili claiming that he was not part of their management team. “We would like to inform you and the public that we do not know him [Fadhili], we have never met [him].” Radio host Adelle Onyango also jumped into the fray saying that in the past, Fadhili also claimed to be representing her, but pulled down the social media post after Adelle’s management team confronted him. Then now came twitter user Ruth Ambogo narrating how she lost her money at the hands of a man who has now been tagged a fraudster. Following the social media uproar, Fadhili took to his social site to say his goodbyes. “Goodbye, I’ve made mistakes and now life has no meaning at all, bye everyone (sic),” he wrote, after which we contacted him in a view to get his side of the story and to shed light about the post, which from all angles pointed to suicide. But he chose to take us into a whirlwind, not giving us any substantial information whenever we called him on phone. He also ignored our calls for an interview. This begs the question, is social media the new channel of expose? Just as Fadhili’s dust was settling, gospel artistes Hopekid and DK Kwenye Beat got the feel of the new-age technology, as they got exposed on social media by vlogger and social media influencer Xtian Dela. This happened on his Telegram channel, giving a blow-by-blow account of how the two had sexual expeditions with a young and aspiring Nakuru artiste. From the sexual interactions, according to the expose, the girl contracted herpes — a sexually transmitted diseases— and Human papillomavirus (HPV), a cancer-causing virus. More exposes Even as Kenyans tried to come to terms with all that, gospel singer Size 8 got into the mix in a bid to help save the duo’s face. She said that after having a sit-down with DK, they agreed that he should make amends and help others who would be going through similar struggles. Apparently, it was that sit-up that led to Hopekid and DK taking to the same media that had exposed their not-gospel-like behaviours to apologise. However, the move backfired on them as netizens couldn’t swallow the apologies stunt pulled by from the duo. Even then, Xtian Dela said that he had made it his mission to “clean up” the gospel industry. “If you have any story to share about any gospel artiste, DJ, dancer, presenter, MC and hypeman, please hit my DM on telegram now! Please attach your story with evidence. I will do my due diligence and share the story. We have to clean up this industry… (sic),” he wrote in his #TOBOA!-With Xtian Dela Telegram channel. In August, 2018, former NTV presenter Kobi Kihara hit the headlines, especially on social media, for all the wrong reasons. The TV personality, who a month earlier had travelled to USA to join a design school, was being accused of plagiarism. This was after a hawk-eyed social media user noted some of her posts on social media had actually been lifted from the Internet. Kenyan netizens went berserk, mocking her for faking a lifestyle and flaunting the same on the Internet. However, Kobi didn’t even dare respond to the allegations, but the episode really left a huge mask on her face. Dealing with fakes “All these fakes should be exposed on every platform. We are living in an era where everyone wants to emulate what others are doing. I call it cloud-chasing and sadly it has taken over drastically,” says social media strategist Brian Mbunde. A Nairobi-based Uber driver Stephen Mwangi (not his real name) disclosed to Spice how he carried a female passenger in his car, who initiated a conversation about a top Kenyan male celebrity after hearing his music play on the cab’s stereo. “Huyu alislide kwa my DM na vile he is a family man (This guy sent me a direct message and he is a family man),” she had started the conversation. Mwangi said the lady passenger went ahead to tell him how the said celeb and herself played a cat and mouse game for over two weeks. At some point, the man, according to Mwangi’s passenger, sent explicit content of himself telling her that she was “missing out” on a lot of good times. Mwangi said that she then threatened the celeb that she would expose him by posting the explicit messages and pictures on social media. And that was when the celeb stopped his sexual advances on her. Counselling physiologist Catherine Gachutha says that the exposes happening on social media should be a lesson to all people living in a fantasy world. “Representation to many who are between the age bracket of 13 and 30 is everything. They all want to create a story for the kind of people they want to become. This person is putting up an imager and is forcefully unmasking and they require thorough counselling, so that they can believe in themselves,” she told Spice.