PD Team @PeopleSports11 Bandari bounced back with a humiliating 4-1 win against troubled AFC Leopards to move to the second position in the SportPesa Premier League (SPL) log at Mbaraki Sports Grounds, Mombasa. Recovering from the 4-0 demolition by Kakamega Homeboyz last weekend, Bernard Mwalala’s charges proved their worth in their home turf to grab the significant three points win they needed most sending leopards league status into jeopardy. Excellent moves Leopards who took dominance in the first quarter of the play with Vincent Oburu making excellent moves which would have awarded his side the first goal in the first 10 minute of the play but, Bandari’s goalkeeper Farouk Shikalo stood firm between the poles. Wyclif Ochomo, coming from an injury he picked in Tanzania during the SportPesa Super Cup converted a pass from Abdalla Hassan to net the first for the hosts in the 22 minute after an excellent move. In what seemed to be a short while, AFC leopards Vincent Oburu came calling with an equaliser in the 27th minute, a scoreline that lasted just six minutes before Ochomo braced for Bandari in the 37th minute. Hassan Abdalla crossed to Yema Mwana who dribbled past the Leopards goalkeeper for the third goal. Three minutes later William Wadri after a well play entered the score sheet with fourth goal for Bandari pulling the charged crowd to jubilations. With the win, Bandari are second position with 21 points while Ingwe are in the 12th position with only 10 points from 10 matches. Former Wazito striker Rashid Kyambadde stepped off the bench to salvage a point for cash strapped Vihiga United after they battled to a 1-1 draw in an energy supping match against Homeboyz at Bukhungu Stadium. Dubbed the ‘Western Derby’ Homeboyz under Allan Wanga were the better side in the first half with a pressing game and fast breaks which saw them take a deserved lead as early as fifth minute after winger Moses Mudavadi unleashed a sizzler right from the edge of the box that easily beat Geoffrey Oputi between the posts. Wanga who was tightly marked by Kenyan international Benard Ochieng will rue his 37th minute wasted opportunity after he played a nice one-two with teenage Peter Thiong’o that exposed visitors’ defence leaving him with enough space to shoot but his effort was very feeble with Oputi picking it easily. Vihiga United coach Mike Mururi introduced in Kyambadde immediately after the interval that snatched an equaliser in the 57th minute with a nice free header from a long pass by experienced winger Chris Masinza from the left wing. Stories by Charles Thuku, Frederick Likuyani and Harrison Kivisu