I consider myself a professional. As such I try my best to keep my personal opinions from mingling unnecessarily with my professional. However, last week, my professional life barged into my personal life, kicked everything about and slapped me in the face. You see, for the past six years or so, I have written this column with all the passion I can muster. I consider myself extremely lucky to be one of four motoring journalists in the country. Don’t tell my bosses this, but even if they slashed my salary by half for no apparent reason, I would still do the job. Cars and bikes are, for me, the most wonderful thing about humanity’s ingenuity. The idea that man mined ore, processed it into an engine, chassis and body panels, and then made tyres from tree sap, resulting in Formula One drivers driving in excess of 300kph is simply astounding. Even mere mortals like you and I can drive at those speeds if we have the scratch to finance that desire. Bugattis and Koenigs eggs are built for just that. Exotic cars Unfortunately, journalists are generally paid in peanuts. You then have to take the said peanuts, process them into peanut butter or njugu karanga, and sell them to make money that you can actually use. At least it feels like that sometimes. So naturally I will never afford such exotic cars in my lifetime, but I’m not complaining! The job affords me to drive cars on the smoothest and most epic roads in the world. Car companies are generally keen to let you have the keys to their cars because you will naturally write about the car and that propaganda publicity will result in higher sales. They will also give you a press release with all the nice things they want you to say about the car. This will be handed to you along with a branded notepad and pen in a five-star hotel in South Africa, or Milan or wherever it is in the world they’ve flown you to. It’s an enviable life this and I truly would continue to do it even if they halved my peanuts. But, because I’m an idealistic fool, I never read the press releases, not a single one! I simply wrote what I thought about the car, and as a result, the invites to far-flung places dried up. I’m unapologetic for two reasons. First, Kenya is a grey import market. If you took away commercial vehicles from the equation, brand new passenger cars are less than one per cent of total vehicle sales in Kenya. So, strictly speaking, most of you don’t really need to know anything about the triple turbo BMW 5 series I drove on an absurdly epic mountain road in South Africa. Secondly, I actually prefer second-hand cars. It’s down to simple mathematics; roads are notoriously expensive and time intensive to construct. Last year the world’s car companies produced well over 80 million cars. These join the world’s road network in much the same way fat builds up in an American’s bloodstream, clogging up the system. As a result, congestion has become the norm. This may not be such a bad thing if your livelihood is anything else but a passionate petrolhead. Borrowed car For the past two years, I have found that I spent an increasing amount of my time, and fuel, stuck in traffic. I almost always have a cool borrowed car, as it is the nature of my job. But, because the car is borrowed, not graciously provided by a car company with a full tank of fuel, I have to fry some peanuts and sell them for fuel money. Only to waste it in traffic, staring at something bland, pointless and uninspired, usually some Toyota or other. Petrol is precious to a petrolhead but time even more so to this particular one. All the money in the world can’t buy back a second. Also, since I visited India two years ago, my motoring guilt has been steadily building up. You see Delhi has the absolute worst air of any city I have ever been to; thick grey smog constantly hovers over the city. It was the first-hand experience that awoke my environmental sensibilities. I love Kenya and there is no way I want us to end up in a situation where commuting has to involve handkerchief draped over the nostrils and mouth. I have it on good authority that the Kenyan Indians here entice their relatives to come over by telling them how clean the air is and how fresh the veggies are, and I’m inclined to believe that. When I came back from India, I specifically asked the cab driver to take the Southern bypass. Winding all the windows down, I gluttonously took in deep breath after deep breath until the unique scent of India was gone from my system. And felt the pride of being Kenyan swell in my heart. This, however, is on a repetitive head-on collision with my job, which entails talking passionately about cars, enthusing you, dear readers, with the passion to own one. What started as a passion for driving has deteriorated into a sneer whenever I hear a new car is being launched into the market. Underlying the marketing gobbledegook is the unavoidable truth that every new car means more mining has taken place, more pollution and when it does eventually hit the road, more congestion. My job literally is to act as a catalyst for that whole process. I have been trying to stop loving cars and even started riding a motorcycle to cut down my carbon footprint, but I still have the BMW E30 that I plan to retromod into a race car. I am a living contradiction. I have also been looking forward to the construction of the Western Bypass, which by sheer happenstance, or luck, will pass right outside my residence. I have for the past three years been anticipating the commencement of construction, dreaming about the many times I will drive on it in many cars. Last week, on Wednesday morning, it finally happened. I saw the excavator being unloaded from a flatbed truck on my way to work. The whole day was spent at work, on the Internet, looking at cars I was planning on driving. When I got home, however, it all came a cropper, as narrated by a neighbour. Cancer warning After they had unloaded the machinery the Chinese contractors slaughtered a cow in sacrifice and sprinkled the blood on all the equipment. Now, if anyone knows the real me in real life, they know that I am the most radical and uncompromising vegetarian you will ever meet. On the rare occasion I have dated a non-vegetarian girl, she has had to brush her teeth in my presence before I can even consider snogging her. Which is why my heart crashed to the pit of my stomach when I heard what had transpired. Over the years I have conveniently ignored the underlying truth behind cars; congestion and pollution, in much the same way a smoker ignores the cancer warning on a cigarette pack. I was ready too to disregard this personal inconvenience but then, fate had other plans for me. I got sucker punched in my gut again. Sunny day Locals were not amused by the “sacrifice.” At a public participation meeting, they demanded they be allowed to sacrifice a few animals of their own, to counter the effects of the Chinese sacrifice. fter all, they argued, they did not understand nor endorse whatever had been done. Politicians present quickly accepted this proposal, to the cheer of the crowd. Since that day, I have been unable to be as blindly passionate about a subject I have loved since I was a little human. I have by no means lost the ability to appreciate a beautiful machine on a beautiful winding road on a sunny day. I will continue to drive and ride the roads that traverse our beautiful country, as high-octane petrol still courses through my veins and my heart still revs to the redline whenever I see a nice car. Yet I no longer wish to stand on this here soapbox voicing opinions that would in any shape or form promote mindless motoring. I’m simply not wired like that.