Mathew Ndungú and Nancy Gitonga @PepleDailyKe Detectives in Nairobi were last evening trying to unravel the puzzle of a treasure trove of fake Sh32.6 billion in assorted currency and sackful of counterfeit gold they recovered in a residential house in Ruiru. Acting on a tip-off, officers from the Special Crime Prevention Unit (SCPU) raided a house at Gatongóra village in Ruiru, Kiambu county and impounded the massive fake haul. They also arrested the custodians of the loot following a five-hour operation, which involved counting the cash. The detectives said the fake money is being linked to some of the seven suspects who have been charged with minting millions of shillings from a prominent businessman by impersonating President Uhuru Kenyatta. The suspects, among them is the flashy Henry Joseph Waswa, who wears many hats — youth entrepreneur and politician with powerful political and social connections. In what could be a breakthrough in trying to crack the intricate network of elite fraudsters, sources say Joseph Munyao, 56, and Nancy Muthoni Muchori, 41, are tenants in the house associated with one of the Uhuru imposters, who was arrested last Friday after failed attempts to seek help of a Cabinet secretary. Higher authorities The CS reportedly tried to block the arrest of his friend, but was told to keep off lest he drew the wrath of “higher authorities”. Waswa is said to have attempted to escape from a police dragnet by fleeing to Naivasha from where he purchased a new telephone line and called the CS, seeking his intervention. The two later met at a popular join in Lavington where detectives from SCPU caught up with him as he was having a drink with the CS. Indications are that the elite imposters, who were yesterday released on a Sh100,000 bond each by a Milimani senior magistrate Francis Andayi, could also be connected to another CS. The seven; Waswa, Duncan Muchai, Isaac Wanjekeche, William Simiyu, David Luganya, Gilbert Kirunja and Anthony Wafula, were accused of mimicking the President and defrauding Sameer Africa Finance Director Akif Hamid Butt of Sh10 million. The other CS, whose photographs with one of the suspected con men have gone viral on social media, is said to have been conned by the latter of Sh12 million. The suspect had reportedly collected Sh20 million bribe due to the CS, but ended up giving him Sh8 million and pocketing the rest. In yesterday’s raid, police found the fake cash — $234 million, £1 million, €840 euros and Sh1 million — stacked in at least 20 metal boxes inside a single storey apartment at Rainbow Phase Two estate. Police also recovered 70 kilogrammes of fake gold, fake silver and a licensed grand power pistol. Police say if the fake cash had found way into the market, it would have been adversely eroded the buying power of consumers as they would end up owning illegal tender. Munyao’s wife, Ruth Kalee, was also arrested but police said she will be treated as a witness after recording statements. According to neighbours, Munyao is said to be a pastor in a church in Nairobi, who had recently  relocated  there  from Runda with his wife. The two, who have three children, are said to have bought the spacious house where the fake cash was stored for Sh2.5 million and are said to have been living a simple life, riding motorbikes apparently to disguise the nature of their business. According to police, Muthoni is reported to be a known money launderer, who has been in the fake-money-business for over five years now. “Muthoni is a known thug. In fact, Nairobi police officers know her for the illegal business,” said a police officer who sought anonymity as he is not authorised to speak to the press. Money laundering Police say that the fake money was transported on Tuesday evening at around 7pm inside a Toyota Harrier bearing number plate  KCD 972M which is owned by Muthoni, the lead suspect. Ruiru police commander James Ngetich said the money laundering business was being conducted by a chain of criminals in a web, adding that the officers would extend their search to Nairobi where the suspects are assumed to operate from. Police say that apart from conning innocent Kenyans, the criminals have been operating money-laundering business from a house in Lavington, Nairobi.