In the fifth segment of a seven-part series on stalled  State projects, MARTIN MWITA explores their drawbacks  to regional growth Lack of funds has derailed 12 projects at the State Department for Regional and Northern Corridor Development, Treasury has revealed, putting pressure on key agricultural, water, manufacturing and irrigation developments. The Sh59.4 billion projects add up to a long list of stalled projects across the country, with a good number threatening the Big Four agenda. With the second biggest budget at Sh59.4 billion, the department has the second highest exposure among the 545 stalled projects after the State Department for Transport which accounts for Sh79.1 billion worth of abandoned projects among them the abandoned Green Field Terminal at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport. The most affected is the Ewaso Ng’iro North River Basin Development (ENNDA) with a budget of a Sh51.8 billion for four major projects. Development of Dua River Transboundary Management programme headquarters takes the lion’s share of ENNDA budget at Sh45 billion. At two per cent complete, the project, which started in 2013 has so far received Sh3 million, with its completion timeline having lapsed in 2015. “Funds were reallocated for the project in the 2016/17 financial year in a bid to complete ongoing projects,” Treasury Principal Secretary Kamau Thugge said in a report on stalled capital projects, “The project has not received funds since then.” The project depends heavily on foreign funding which accounts for Sh40 billion with the government giving Sh5 billion. Another key project at the authority is Ewaso Ng’iro North Integrated Water Drought and Food Security Development being developed on a Sh5 billion budget. The project is two per cent complete after taking up Sh10 million. Though there is still time to complete it, noting that its implementation stretches up to 2022, failure to realise the development will be a blow to President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda on food security. It was launched in 2015 during Uhuru’s first term and will set back the government Sh4.9 billion to complete it. Budget constraints ENNDA is also implementing the Northern Kenya Integrated Camel Development Programme at Sh1.5 billion launched in 2005. Though it is expected to be complete by 2025, the project, still at five per cent, has consumed Sh25 million due to budget constraints. Treasury has noted that in the 2016/17 financial year, Sh325 million allocated to the development was reallocated to water pan. It received a paltry Sh8 million in the 2017/18 fiscal year before missing out on allocation in the current financial year. Apart from the three, ENNDA is also developing its regional data and resources centre at a cost of Sh350 million. Started in 2013 with a 2018 completion timeline, the project has stalled at 70 per cent after consuming Sh250 million. It has not been financed since the 2016/17 budget. The Coast Development Authority (CDA), however, has the highest number (six) of affected projects under the State Department being implemented on a Sh4.1 billion budget. They include the Integrated Fruit and Honey Processing Sh326 million project initiated in 2012 to revitalise the sub-sector and increase farmers’ earnings through value addition. The initiative, which was expected to be completed this year, is at 61 per cent with developers pocketing Sh197.7 million. It targets arid areas of the Coast and remains a significant initiative that would boost fruit and honey farming, a move that will go a long way in supporting food security in dry areas. Foreign funds Lake Challa Water Resource Intergrated Development Project is, however, the biggest stalled initiative under the authority. The project is being implemented through foreign funds at Sh2.8 billion and Sh500 million by the government. The initiative which is critical for supporting livelihoods around the Lake Challa region has so far received Sh83 million, meaning Sh3.2 billion is required to complete it. Treasury has blamed lack of funds, low development budget ceiling and the project’s aspect of being promoted through Public Private Partnership (PPP) as the reason for its stalling. Another development is the promotion of sustainable mineral exploration and processing, and coral blocks production, an initiative budgeted to take Sh728 million. CDA is further developing the Wananchi Cottages at Sh300 million, Boji Farmers irrigation Project(Sh145) and a milk processing plant, stalled at Sh72 million. The Kerio Valley Development Authority on the other hand has a Sh2.3 billion project stalled at 10 per cent since its launch in 2010. It was not funded in the 2018/19 budget, Treasury has disclosed, a move likely to affect its completion set for 2020/21 financial year. The initiative which is being fully funded by the government has consumed Sh195 million to June 2018.