PERPETUA ADOYO This Saturday make your way to Carnivore where Twaweza Live concert will be taking place. The initiative by Safaricom connects the company with its customers with a surreal experience and performances to engage with communities across Kenya. Come with family and friends! Venue: Carnivore Restaurant Date: 2nd February Time: 6pm- 6am Entry: Sh1,000 AFRO LIVE WITH IDD AZIZ Idd Aziz, yes they guy with the smooth vocals, will be at The Alchemist this Saturday for a special live afro-electronic performance. If you want an evening of relaxation with good music and ambience then be sure to mark this in your calendar. Venue:  The Alchemist Date: 2nd February Time: 9pm till late Entry: Free BRITAM KENYAN GUINEAS Britam presents a horse race this Sunday at the Ngong Racecourse. The horse racing will feature jockeys from all over the world such as Mauritius, South Africa and Zimbabwe. It will not only be about horse racing though as there will be other activities such as Parachute jumping, marching band, fashion show and other kids entertainment. Venue:  Ngong Racecourse Date: 3rd February Time: 12pm-4pm Entry: Sh1,000 SATURDAY NIGHT COMEDY The theme of the show this season will be love and feelings. The show will include acts such as Mammito, Ciku, Tom Daktari, David Macharia, Ty Ngachira and Don Andre. If a night full of laughs is your cup of tea then this is the place to be. Venue:  Barclays Plaza – The Blues Restaurant Date: 2nd February Time: 8pm- 10pm Entry: Sh500 MOVIE NIGHT Movie night is created for families that want an evening out, but with the comfort of a home. This Sunday at Rosslyn Rivera Mall all families are welcomed to enjoy a movie night with the special viewing of The Book of Life. A movie with a familial genre and feel. Venue:  Rosslyn Rivera Mall Date: 2nd February Time: 4pm-7pm Entry: Sh400, includes snacks DAY TRIP TO HELL’S GATE If you want a day trip out of town with friends and family, a day trip to hell’s gate might be what you are looking for. Lone Warrior tours has a package for anyone interested visiting hell’s gate that includes transport, game drive, photography, hiking, biking and a boat ride in Lake Naivasha. Date: 2nd February Time: 6:30am-6pm Venue: Bata Hilton (pickup) Entry:  Sh2,500 SOUL SESSION Soul session is a themed event where acoustic music is combined with poetry to create an ambience of peace and relaxation in an intimate setting. Coffee Casa introduces to you the first acts of the month; Wanja Wahoro and Ivan Irakoze, as they aim to entertain you this Saturday. Date: 2nd February Venue:  Coffee Casa, Parklands Time: 5pm till late Entry: Sh1,000  1ST ANNUAL NAIROBI MAKE UP A make-up event like no other. This Saturday, KICC will be hosting a make-up sale with up to 50 per cent off on beauty paraphenalia. The event will feature brands from all over the world. You and your girl squad are all welcome. Date: 2nd February Time: 8am-9pm Venue: Kenyatta International Conference Centre Entry:  Free DANCE WORKSHOP If you have ever wanted to learn the Maasai dance, right in the heart of Maasai land in the Mara, then this is your chance to sign up for a dance workshop. The Maasai Mara lodge is holding a dancing workshop that is open to everyone for you to learn the culture and appreciate it by being part of it, literally. It has limited spaces so book early. It will also include all meals, nature walk, safari drive and accommodation at Maasai Mara Lodge. Date: 2nd February Venue:  Masai Mara Time: 12pm-7pm Entry: Call to confirm MARCO BAILEY A techno icon will be in Nairobi this weekend and that is none other than Marco Bailey. A DJ and producer who has toured the world for the last 29 years doing what he loves. He will be celebrating his milestone at MUZE. Don’t miss this chance to rub shoulders with a legend as you party the night away. Venue:  MUZE Date: 2nd January Time: 10pm- 5am Entry: Sh2,000