Lynette Matheka and Seth Mwaniki @PeopleSport11 The story of Susan Gatwiri, the winner of the prestigious Sports Personality of the Year (SOYA) award in the People Living with Disability category took social media by storm when her employer narrate the plight of his house help. Gatwiri represented the country in the 14th edition of the Special Olympics World Summer Games in Los Angeles, USA in 2015. Kenya won a total of 42 medals (22 gold, two silver and 18 bronze), which was the best ever, performance by Team Kenya that was represented by 51 athletes. Two of the gold medals were from Gatwiri, a Nyeri County resident who at the time was a class eight pupil at a special unit school in Nyeri County. Gatwiri had hoped the same would translate to self fortunes by giving her a monetary award besides getting medals in order liberate her mother back at home who wallows in extreme poverty. But contrary to her expectations, the athlete only came home with a SOYA Award of  a paltry Sh75 000 that she gave to her mother to rent a house, pay some fees for her siblings and obtain ordinary chattel of a table and chairs. Her case emerged after her story was shared on social media where many doubted why she is categorised as a special athlete despite being visibly healthy. However, the uncle to Gatwiri Judith Kiende says that she has undergone all her primary education as a special learner “I enrolled her to school as an ordinary learner only for things to change later after teachers proved she could hardly read or write despite being fully-trained to do so,” her mother said. In deed all her certificates of merit in school sports competition shows that she has until the day she sat for KCPE participated in the category of persons with intellectual disability. The athlete scored 105 marks after sitting for her KCPE at Meere Primary School. The dejected Gatwiri who now earns Sh6,000 per month works as house girl in a month in the outskirts of Nyeri town, an amount she uses to cater for her needs and those of her jobless mother who resides in a rental shack in near Narumoru forest. I went through learning as a special learner both a school in Timau and Mere Primary School. Following the social media post, People Daily has established the following facts about Gatwiri’s plight after speaking to Special Olympics Kenya national coordinator Susan Masila; Fact one- She participated in the Unified Special Olympics in 2015. These are sports for Intellectually Disabled (ID) people. Fact Two- She had all the paper work from the Ministry of Education to ascertain that she has an ID before making the 2015 team ( ID can mean one is too slow in class and they need special attention from the teachers. Some people with such conditions attend normal school but get special attention to their teacher) Fact Three- She won two gold medals. Gatwiri clocked 11:03.13 to bag gold in women 3000m and 5000m in a personal best of 18:51.4. The 2015 games were the only edition that Gatwiri participated in. Fact Four: Each gold medal attracted Sh 200,000 from the Ministry of Sports as a token of appreciation. Our efforts to reach the Ministry of Sports through Principal Secretary Peter Kaberia to establish whether Gatwiri was paid the owed Sh400,000 from her winnings were futile as he did not pick our calls. 