Amos Abuga @PeopleSports11 Time off the track has been inspirational for Olympic 1,500m champion Faith Kipyegon, who has recently started light training with focus on Tokyo Olympics after her lengthy maternity leave. The reigning Olympic and World 1,500m champion will not, however, be rushing herself back to the track, as she plans to gradually return to her peak form in good time before the Summer Games. “I am happy with what is going on in my life, I mean giving birth and getting quality time with the young one is extraordinary for me. My daughter is giving me ample time to reflect on my future equally,” said the former two- time World Cross junior winner. She added: “For any athlete, the Olympics remain the biggest event in the calendar, coming once after four years makes it even more special. That is one occasion where you have to put your best foot forward to make sure you take part and make an impact.” On the recently-named team Kenya that will be flying the country’s flag at next month’s Word Cross Country Championships in Denmark, the 2011 World Youth and 2012 World Junior 1500m champion, is confident Kenya has good prospects. She reckons, the team that will be led by 5,000m world champion Hellen Obiri, is more than capable of dominating the global event. “Obiri, for example has been in good form on the track, I know she is a certain gold medal winner at the world cross-country, Importantly, she has equally good runners who will be going to Aarhus with her to complete the clean sweep,” she said. A winner herself, having won the World Cross junior titles in 2011 Punta Umbria and 2010 Bydgoszcz, she is well aware how grueling the national trails can be. “I have done the trails myself, they are referred to as ‘Mini Worlds’ because of their competitive nature, there is a lot of positive from the team we have,” said Kipyegon. Besides Obiri, the 10km women senior team has world 3,000m steeplechase record holder Beatrice Chepkoech, Lillian Kasait, Beatrice Mutai, Deborah Samum and Eva Cherono.