Amos Abuga @PeopleSport11 Kenya Prisons Service’s women’s volleyball team coach Josp Barasa has welcomed the return of captain Backsides Agala to the squad as the national women champions beef up their preps for African Women’s Volleyball Club Championship scheduled for next month in Cairo, Egypt. The long serving attacker is among the three key players who have been out on maternity leave for up to a year and have since linked up to the squad currently training  from the  Kasarani indoor arena ahead of the competitions that will be played between March 16 and 25 in Cairo. Barasa whose side reclaimed the women’s title after defeating arch-rivals Kenya Prisons in last year’s playoff finals  also welcomed back  left attacker Lydia Maiyo, and  centre attacker Joan Chelagat. The wardresses will be hoping for a record sixth continental crown despite having poor outing in the last three seasons of the Africa event. “We have been working on our mistakes which are mainly centered on poor blocks and uncoordinated attacks, the girls are showing intent and more purpose,” Barasa told People Sport after Tuesday morning training session. The tactician has also revealed the team has secured the services of setter Mercy Likhayo formerly of Lugulu Girls and libero  Caren Cheruto from Bungoma County team, the coach is upbeat the two will leave their mark. ‘The team is gelling well from the veteran middle blocker Diana Khisa and the emergence of youngsters Sharon Chepchumba, Lorine Chebet and Emmaculate Chemtai. The new arrivals have experienced players to learn from,” the coach added. Barasa  is optimistic his side ending a four year wait  for the national title after beating Pipeline 3-1 (25-19,25-22,22-25,25-21)  in the finals last December remains a motivating factor to the team. “It is no secret that we (Prisons ) had played second fiddle to the oilers (Pipeline)  since their last conquest in 2013 with Pipeline winning the subsequent editions from 2014-2017. We are now ridding in confidence,” he declared The other Kenyan participants in the African Women’s Volleyball Club Championship Kenya Pipeline, and Kenya Commercial  Bank (KCB )volleyball teams have started  their preparations for this year’s club competition.(Sh1 million) for running faster than 1:09, while Kitata nabbed an extra $5,000 (Sh500,000) for running under 1:00:30.