Exporters will continue accessing the EU market despite the delay by other East African Community (EAC) countries to sign and ratify the 16-year-old Economic Partnership Agreement (EPA). EAC Cabinet secretary Adan Mohamed allayed fears that the delay to sign and ratify the trade protocol will affect local exporters of mainly fresh produce to the EU market. “Kenya has already signed and ratified the EU-EAC-EPA, and as a consequence, we enjoy uninterrupted market access in the EU. Some EAC member states have sought for clarifications on certain clauses and that engagement is expected to be concluded in the next four months,” he said in a statement yesterday. He added, “We want to assure our private sector players that our market access to the EU will not be affected by the short extension of time sought by some member states for further clarifications with EU and internal consultations.” Kenya’s bid to build a shared custom with its neighbours has remained in limbo as the rest largely classified as least developed countries continue to show reluctance to sign the crucial pact with the EU. Kenya signed and ratified the document while Rwanda only signed the agreement in 2016 but it needs approval from all other members of the EAC bloc – Uganda, Tanzania, South Sudan and Burundi – to take effect. Last week, heads of state, during a summit at Arusha, Tanzania resolved that the countries can individually sign separate trade agreements with the EU if a joint deal is not reached within the next four months. The leaders agreed on the new decision after receiving and adopting a progress report from President Yoweri Museveni, on the EU-EAC EPA. The regional bloc under the new chairmanship of Rwanda President Paul Kagame will initiate talks with EU on the matter in the next four months to get more clarification on the pertinent issues. “Thereafter, partner states who wish to, may or may not sign the EPA,” a joint communique issued after the meeting says. Kenya will continue accessing market under the EU Market Regulations of 2007 until otherwise.  Equally the rest of the EAC countries will continue accessing the EU under the duty and quota free market. EU is Kenya’s biggest export destination which stands at Sh146.9 billion in 2017, according to the Economic Survey 2018.jected to mandatory screening procedures. Unlike in previous instances where such seizures have largely involved outbound (export) parcels, yesterday’s interception was for inward delivery.