Chief Justice David Maraga has said it would be impossible to work with a time-frame within which corruption cases can be heard and determined. He, however, said the Judiciary would try to determine such cases within three to five months although others may take more time to be concluded going by the nature of the cases and offences involved. The Chief Justice spoke on  Friday after a meeting with top judges, following days of sustained pressure and accusations that the Judiciary  is the weakest link in the fight against corruption. Maraga met President of the Court of Appeal, Principal judges of the High Court and the Employment and Labour Relations Court, Presiding judge of the Environment and Land Courts, and all Presiding judges of superior courts. In a statement by Court of Appeal President William Ouko, the judges noted that the Constitution calls for the Judiciary to be accountable, efficient, effective and transparent in the administration of justice. The Judiciary invited continued scrutiny and constructive criticism aimed at improving its functioning. “Judiciary leaders acknowledge corruption is a cancer in our society.  The Judiciary is committed to playing its rightful role in the fight against corruption within the ambit of the law,” said Justice Ouko. The Appellate judge said between July, 2017 and December, 2018, 91 corruption cases were determined out of which there were 46 convictions while 94 corruption cases were pending as of Friday. “Ten magistrates have been added to the Anti-corruption Court with mandate to finish all pending cases. The Chief Justice has given written mandate to all the magistrates in the Anti-corruption court to sit beyond normal court hours to fast-track the cases,” he said. He said Judiciary leaders had discussed and recommended active case management techniques to fast-track the said cases. “All magistrates in Anti-corruption court will undergo sensitisation and training in active case management techniques. The Judiciary will also take stock of all cases involving infrastructural projects with a view to fast-tracking them,” he said. Top Judiciary leaders further reiterated their pledge to keep the public and stakeholders informed of progress in all matters involving public interest litigation, including anti-corruption cases and cases involving major infrastructural projects, as part Judiciary accountability. They recommended that the Justice sector addresses issues hampering the prosecution of anti-corruption cases. “The issues include the provision of witness statements, which often run into thousands of pages for anti-corruption cases, failure to avail witnesses and expert witnesses and their reports. The Judiciary appreciates that the war against corruption can only be won through inter-agency collaboration of all actors within the justice sector,” added Justice Ouko. The Bench noted that Article 157 of the Constitution placed the role of investigation and prosecution on the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions.