DPPS @PeopleDailyKe Deputy President Wiliam Ruto has asked donors and government officers to involve communities in the implementation of development projects. He said projects under the North and North Eastern Development Initiative (Nedi) require input from the leaders and residents. The counties under Nedi include Mandera, Garissa, Isiolo, Lamu, Marsabit, Samburu, Tana River, Turkana, Wajir and West Pokot. Addressing Nedi stakeholders and partners at his Karen office, Nairobi yesterday, Ruto said public participation was no longer a luxury but a necessity as enshrined in the Constitution. National Assembly Majority Leader Adan Duale, Governors Ali Roba (Mandera), Ali Korane (Garissa), Josephat Nanok (Turkana) Hassan Abdi (Wajir), John Lonyangapuo (West Pokot) and Mohamud Mohamed Ali (Marsabit) and 25 MPs from the Nedi counties attended the forum. Principal secretaries and other top senior government officials from the ministries of Treasury, Energy, Livestock, Water, Transport, Devolution, Education and Housing were also present. Ruto  said community engagement strategies must involve key stakeholders in the planning and implementation of infrastructure, water among other development projects in their communities. “It is important to involve leaders and residents because they understand their priority areas. We know that a thoughtful approach to project planning and design, which includes input from all interested parties throughout the process, builds trust and leads to success, “ said the DP. He also said public participation also helps initiate projects that have value chain and sustainability. The Deputy President asked the Treasury to ensure that the money that World Bank has allocated for projects are used within the stipulated timeframe. Helene Carrison Rex, the programme leader for Nedi urged those responsible for the implementation of the projects to ensure the funds were released and used within the stipulated period. Governors Roba and Mahammudsaid  Isiolo-Moyale road had opened up trade and investments in the region previously shunned because of poor transport infrastructure.