Hi Achokis. I have been married for seven years. My problem is that whenever I engage my wife in a conversation it always ends up in a yes/no kind of thing. I’m getting frustrated. Why is it hard to sustain a discussion with my wife? How can I make her have a good conversation with me? Our Take Thanks for your question. It is indeed difficult to have a conversation with somebody if your conversations have been reduced to monosyllables. Normally, it is men who respond like this as women generally talk so much. But in your case it’s the opposite. There could be many reasons for this. First, it would be important to find out what kind of conversations you have with your wife that makes her unresponsive. Is it matters of finances, your family or topics that she is not interested in? Secondly, it could be that she’s been hurt in the past when she tried to voice her opinion. You probably belittled what she said, or didn’t listen to her. When a woman gets to that point when she feels her opinion doesn’t count, she will just keep quite or agree with you even though deep inside she may have her own reservations. It could also be that you have always bulldozed your way through your conversations, never allowing her to express herself on any matter. So, you need to first look inward before you accuse your spouse of making it hard for you to have a conversation with her. You may need to check your attitude, and ensure that your approach is right. How you begin a conversation will determine which way that conversation goes. If you begin by attacking, accusing or judging your partner, they will most likely react in one or two ways. Either they will hit back at you ending in a conflict, or they will recoil inside and not talk at all only responding by saying yes or no. So, check your approach. Secondly, ask questions instead of just talking. But when it comes to asking questions, don’t ask leading questions or questions that judge someone’s motives such as, why did you do that? Don’t also ask close-ended questions that have a yes/no answers. Instead of asking, “Did you pay the bill?” why not frame that question in another way that will open up the conversation. A question like, “What was your experience doing that?” Finally, learn to listen well. Don’t interrupt or hijack your spouse’s stories. Try to have conversations that are relaxed. Talk about what interests her and not just you. When she shares her stories, encourage her by asking her to tell you more. Become interested in what is important to her not just what is important to you. If you do that, you will be amazed at the kind of conversations you will end up having with your wife.