We have all marked birthdays over the years with a centerpiece candle-studded cake, and no wedding is complete without a towering baked offering. Sweet treats are for celebrations, and if you have a sweet tooth, this is for you. Recently, I honoured an invite by Pastry Chef Stephen Muturi of Valentine School of Cake to learn how to bake as well as do some tasting of different cake variants. With our appointment set at 5pm as the last class ends at about 4.30pm, I arrived at the school located along Nginda Lane, Nairobi 10 minutes earlier, and found the students cleaning up. In no time, my host ushered me into the kitchen and took me through some safety measures before showing me the baking equipment and how each is used. He then handed me the menu to choose my favourite flavour. No brainer; white forest with passion. As we got into it, Muturi kept reminding me of important tips to observe when baking; that one should always ensure the ingredients don’t exceed the indicated amount since this helps the cake not sink. He also warned that eggs should always be broken one by one and in a separate bowl, to ensure that if one is spoilt, it doesn’t mix with the rest or ruin the whole mixture. Though I was as keen as mustard, I could accommodate a chat, and I learnt a lot about Muturi’s journey. Making pastries to him is a passion because he is an artsy person and also a professional chef. Prior to joining his current employer in 2016, he worked with Karen Country Club, Rovers, Kahamas Hotel in Mombasa and Fun Garden Thika. Before specialising in pastries, he was in the hot kitchen department. His greatest inspiration in life is his mother, who he says used to bake wedding cakes when he was young. This is what sparked his interest in cooking, and he underwent training to become a professional pastry chef. After 45 minutes, our cake was ready and we began preparing the topping and decoration, as we waited for it to cool down. It turned out to be one of my best cooking classes, more so after tasting what we had put together. It was elegant, spongy and delicious; the perfect cake for any occasion or just as dessert, the climax to a meal. Ingredients (makes 1kg) Flour 170g Sugar 170g Margarine 120g Eggs 5 Vanilla essence 1 tsp Baking powder 2 tsp Fresh whipping cream 300ml Additional sugar 160g (to taste) Icing sugar (to taste) Additional margarine (for greasing) Fresh strawberries 150g Fresh passion fruit 150g Fresh kiwi fruit 1 Fresh orange 1 Chocolate 100g (for cage) Baking paper Palette knife Method Grease baking tin and line with baking paper. Weigh the flour, sugar, margarine, eggs, vanilla essence, and baking powder, then put in a mixing bowl. Mix the ingredients together for 3-4 minutes until well mixed and light in consistency. Pour into the prepared tin. Bake in a pre-heated oven at 180 degrees Celsius for 45 minutes. Decoration Slice the cake into three layers. Whip the cream and sugar (half of the additional sugar) until it thickens. Scoop out the passion fruit pulp with a spoon and place it in a bowl, then add icing sugar until the mixture is sweetened. Make sugar syrup with water and the rest of the additional sugar. Into the layers, sprinkle the syrup, spread the whipped cream and put passion fruit pulp on top. After putting the last layer, spread the whipped cream on top and sides using a palette knife. Cage the cake with chocolate and decorate with strawberry, kiwi and orange pieces.