Mercy Mwai @wangumarci Members of Parliament are once again on the spot after Auditor General Edward Ouko revealed that millions of shillings meant for development projects and bursaries for needy students under the National Government Constituency Development Funds (NG-CDF) have been misused. In a report tabled in the National Assembly last Thursday by Leader of Majority Aden Duale, Ouko slammed the legislators for failing to account for the money given to them to improve the lives of their constituents. According to an analysis of the report on  12 constituencies, Ouko exposed how some of MPs issued bouncing cheques while in other cases,  they budgeted for non-existent projects. Ouko said MPs had diverted the funds availed for projects while in other constituencies the projects have failed to kick off, stalled or have been abandoned. The queries, which differ from constituency to constituency, also show how the NG-CDF officers benefited from imprests without surrendering previous ones. The most affected constituencies include Ndaragwa (Jeremiah Kioni), Nyeri Town (Ngunjiri Wambugu), Mandera East (Abdulaziz Fara), Bomet East (Beatrice Kones), Juja (Ferdinand Munyua), Bondo (Gideon Ochanda) and Dagoretti South (John Kiarie). Bomet East reportedly issued stale cheques worth Sh1.3 million and has outstanding imprests worth Sh795,640 while Juja constituency is on the spot over idle security staff houses in Abba Sala Administration Police Post that were constructed at Sh2 million. Mandera East constituency is accused of irregular procurement of schools projects worth Sh6.2 million, including construction of classrooms, staff houses and laboratory blocks, yet there were no tender notices and documents and  unsupported environmental projects totalling to Sh2.5 million. In Samburu North, Ouko has raised concern as to whether bursaries totalling to Sh48.2 million were awarded as there was no bursary application register that was maintained to show the names of the beneficiaries. Others mentioned are Samburu West (Alloys Lentoimaga), Gatanga (Nduati Ngugi), Kikuyu (Kimani Ichung’wa), Mwala (Vincent Munyaka) and Johnson Naicca’s Mumias West.