Bernard Gitau @benagitau Some government agencies are on the spot for reportedly driving Kenyatta National Hospital (KNH) to its knees by failing to pay Sh5 billion debts. KNH, Kenya’s biggest referral hospital, is suffering a cash crunch that puts on the line the lives of over 700,000 patients who seek treatment at the facility annually. The hospital’s annual report and financial statement indicate the National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF) owes it about Sh800 million, while the Kenya Urban Roads Authority (Kura) owes KNH more than Sh4.2 billion. The Prisons Department also reportedly KNH owes close to Sh200 million. Referral cases “The facility loses three per cent of its total revenue to NHIF and free maternity services and another six per cent to provisions of doubtful debts,” the report reads in part. The Health ministry has directed NHIF to reimburse the hospital Sh17,500 for every delivery at the facility under the fund’s cover. “KNH receives complicated maternity referral cases. As a result, the costs are higher, yet the reimbursable of Sh17,500 per delivery has remained the same,” the report adds. According to the recent Auditor General’s report, besides the money owed to it, KNH lost over Sh370 million to NHIF  underpayment, especially  for maternity services. The report also warned the hospital would continue to incur losses if the reimbursable amounts were not reviewed upwards. KNH indicates that 45 per cent of admissions relate to reproductive health, with patients keen on reaping maximum benefits of the free maternity programme. “In 2017, KNH received 70,000 inpatients and 600,000 outpatients. Out of these, 31,500 inpatients sought maternal services,” the hospital reveals. On the other hand, Kura is said to have acquired land belonging to KNH for the construction of Hospital Road and Mbagathi Way Link Road, but it’s yet to pay the hospital for the same.  The construction is ongoing. Meanwhile, the crisis of congestion, shortage of drugs and understaffing bedevilling Nairobi hospitals, including  at KNH, Mbagathi, Pumwani and Mama Lucy hospitals have been attributed to patients’ poor perception of local public dispensaries, health centres and sub-county facilities. County government officials say the perception that the notion that the local facilities offer substandard. This has seen most of the facilities under-utilised despite millions of shillings being spent to build and equip them. In the meantime, the seemingly big public hospitals are crushing under the pressure of congestion and understaffing. A spot check by People Daily at various health centres revealed most were in good condition, well-staffed but with few patients. Kayole I and II, Buru Buru, Eastleigh and Makadara health centres were rehabilitated by Unicef and equipped in partnership with County government, but remain largely deserted. Mini-theatre And according to Dr Peter Mogoi, in charge of Kayole sub-county hospital, patients who self-refer themselves to major hospitals such as KNH have led to congestion in the referral hospitals, thus affecting service delivery. “Most people in the city have a perception that only KNH offers the best services, unaware they can get treatment from our health centres,” he said. With a catchment population of 75,000, Kayole barely attends to half the number. “We have a 22-bed capacity maternity wing but there is a time you will find only five occupied, with most patients thronging Mama Lucy,” he said. Mogoi says the county government set aside a supplementary budget of Sh5 million to put up a mini-theatre at the facility to help in offering specialised services. Few mothers deliver here and access basic maternal services for free. Thus besides hot showers, the hospital also offers patients delicious meals. Judy Mwenesi, a patient at the facility’s maternity wing expressed satisfaction with the hospital. “I am very pleased by the services here, contrary to the bad perception by patients over public health centres,” she said. Mwenesi has just delivered her third born. She says “staff are friendly, the facility clean and the food so delicious one would only expect it to be served in private hospitals”. She called upon mothers and other patients to seek medication from ward and sub-county hospitals. Medical practitioners are urging patients to reconsider their perception. Meanwhile, Mogoi says for the negative perception to change, county government must improve and equip the facilities and increase staff numbers to ease the shortage. “Supply of drugs is erratic at times. We need specialists in small hospitals so as to decongest our referral hospitals,” he added.