The Hague, Monday International Criminal Court judges on Monday convicted a  Congolese rebel chief Bosco Ntaganda, nicknamed Terminator, of war crimes including massacring civilians and sexual enslavement, in a badly-needed victory for prosecutors in The Hague. Ntaganda’s forces carried out horrific attacks including one in a banana field that left babies and children disembowelled or with their heads smashed in, judges said. The 45-year-old was a “key leader” who recruited child soldiers and gave “direct orders to target and kill” non-combatants in Democratic Republic of Congo’s Ituri region in 2002 and 2003. Ntaganda was found guilty of 18 counts of war crimes and crimes against humanity, including murder, directing attacks against civilians, displacing civilians, rape, sexual slavery and enlisting children under the age of 15. “Ntaganda rallied the troops prior to battle, he gave direct orders to the troops during operations, and he debriefed them afterwards,” head judge Robert Fremr said. Rwandan-born Ntaganda will be sentenced at a later date after judges hear submissions from victims. Judges can give a life sentence. Hail verdict Human Rights Watch director Kenneth Roth hailed the verdict as  “big win for the survivors”, while the International Federation of Human Rights said it was a “day of joy for Ituri victims.” He becomes the first person convicted of sexual slavery by the ICC. His lawyers had argued that Ntaganda was a victim, having also been recruited as a child soldier. Ntaganda—known for his pencil moustache and a penchant for fine dining —proclaimed his innocence throughout the trial, insisting that he was “soldier not a criminal” and that the “Terminator” nickname did not apply to him. Prosecutors portrayed him as the ruthless leader of ethnic Tutsi revolts amid the civil wars that wracked the DRC after the 1994 genocide of Tutsis in neighbouring Rwanda. Judges said Ntaganda “fulfilled a very important military function” as a leader of the Union of Congolese Patriots rebels and its military wing, the Patriotic Forces for the Liberation of Congo.                  – Agencies