Irene Githinji and KNA @PeopleDailyKe Devolution Cabinet secretary Eugene Wamalwa yesterday urged Taita Taveta leaders to embrace dialogue as opposed to taking drastic move of dissolving the county. The CS made the remarks as he kick-started the mediation process towards resolving emerging issues, even as he stated that dissolving the county would come in the way of service delivery for the residents. However, Taita Taveta Governor Granton Samboja did not attend the meeting held in Wamalwa’s office and instead sent his Deputy Majala Mlagui and County Executive Committee (CEC) members. Send delegation Some Members of the County Assembly (MCAs) were at the National Treasury, where Devolution ministry is housed, but declined to attend the meeting, in the presence of Majala and CECs. “I reached out to the governor and he sent a delegation led by Majala, who was accompanied by CECs and engaged in long deliberation. We have come together to look at what happened and arising issues were captured,” he said. Wamalwa first met with Majala and CECs and then with MCAs separately in the afternoon as he insisted that parties should consider embracing an amicable way to address challenges facing the county. Although the law provides for dissolution of counties in certain circumstances, the CS encouraged Taita Taveta leaders to resolve issues without  taking drastic measures. Also part of the mediation team is Intergovernmental Technical Relations Committee (IGTRC) chief executive Peter Lelei, Senate Devolution committee chairman John Kinyua and representatives from Council of Governors, Commission for Revenue Allocation (CRA) as well as offices of the controller of budget and Auditor General respectively. The CS said the mediation team will engage with County Assembly leadership and then visit the county to collect views of the residents. “The team will seek to establish if there is an amicable way to settle issues so that there will be disruption of services in the county,” he added. Meanwhile, a consortium of Civil Society Organisations in Taita Taveta  has backed Samboja’s rejection of the budget proposals in which MCAs had allocated  over Sh800 million for ward projects. Violate law Speaking in Voi town on Monday,  Taita Taveta Human Rights Watch chairperson  Hajji Mwakio said the MCAs had violated the Constitution by allocating themselves money for overpriced projects. Mwakio also claimed there was no public participation to approve of the projects in the wards. “The budget did not allow for public participation. Some projects are highly quoted with a toilet being priced at Sh700, 000 which is not realistic,” he said. The chairperson added that some projects are also being funded twice as they are already sponsored by other organizations. Another civil society activist Florah Ali said the process of making the budget did not follow the law. She accused MCAs of neglecting their responsibilities of oversight on usage of wards funds. “The public and projects committee are supposed to be included in the decisions for budgeting in order to ensure prudent use of funds given to each ward,” she said. Beatrice Mjomba, a member of Sauti Ya Wanawake, said most funds are being misused by allocating it to frivolous projects.