Zadock Angira @PeopleDailyKe Detectives from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) and Central Bank of Kenya have arrested three suspects who conned two foreigners of Sh15 million in the pretext of selling them coffee and other artefacts. Businessman John Henry Waswa — one of the seven men earlier accused of impersonating President Uhuru Kenyatta and fraudulently obtaining Sh10 million from Sameer Africa chairman Naushad Merali — is also being sought after investigations revealed that some of the payments were channelled through his account. According to police, the suspects, who are close associates of Waswa, together with a senior politician, obtained money from Kazakhstan nationals Damir Ryskulov and his brother by pretending that they could supply them with coffee and other artefacts. Money laundering On Friday, detectives from the DCI’s Financial Investigations Unit (FIU) arrested Berlin Owino Ajeck, Stephen Roberts Andere and Evelyne Adhiambo Osore. Yesterday, they were presented before court but were not formally charged. Through Miscellaneous Application number 2805 of 2019 the investigating officer superintendent Mike Muia requested the court to allow them to detain the suspects for 14 days to enable them to complete investigations. The three, plus three other persons who are yet to be arrested, are to be charged with obtaining money by false pretence and money laundering, contrary to Section 3, 4 and 7 of the Proceeds of Crime and Anti-money Laundering Act. The investigations were triggered by a payment made by Ryskulov on July 4 to one of the suspects. Detectives attached to CBK flagged the payment and notified their colleagues at the FIU. In the course of investigations, they established that Ryskulov had paid the money but nothing had been delivered. They further unearthed an elaborate plan that involved multiple players who arranged for the complainants to visit the country. Three of them, together with Waswa, booked the complainants at E21 at Cullinan Apartments on Nyangumi Road in Kilimani. Waswa had assigned the first accused, Ajeck to Ryskulov as a personal assistant, driver and bodyguard. On Thursday night, detectives raided the apartment and took away Ryskulov to an undisclosed hotel in the city. He had stayed at the apartment for about 13 days. Police said they had contacted the embassies involved to get more details that could lead to information crucial to investigations. Separate deal Waswa is said to have played a key role in the fraud and also brought Ajeck from Webuye where he was one of the bouncers at a Webuye-based resort. Waswa has, however, denied receiving any payment from Ryskulov, insisting that he was dealing with another Kazakhstani national who had bought some scrap metal from him. “I only received Sh3 million. The bank held the money but it has got nothing to do with Ryskulov,” he told People Daily yesterday Waswa confirmed that Ajeck was part of his security team but did not assign him to Ryskulov.