Antoine Griezmann (pictured) has completed his Sh 14 billion (£108million) move to Barcelona from Atletico Madrid. The La Liga champions have been courting the Frenchman for the past two summers and have now finally landed their man after paying his release clause in full. The forward, who was pictured on a boat during his holiday in Ibiza on Friday, has signed on the dotted line for Barcelona on a five-year deal, which includes an eye-watering buyout clause of £717m. Griezmann expressed a desire to join Barcelona earlier in the summer but the Catalan giants waited until his release clause dropped from £180m to £108m at the start of this month to submit an offer. Atletico are furious they have been forced to accept the £108m bid and vowed to take legal action against Barcelona and the player after claiming agreements were in place last season. In a strongly-worded statement, the club wrote: ‘Atletico Madrid believes that the amount deposited (€120m) is insufficient to meet his rescission clause, since it’s obvious that the commitment of the player and Barcelona was closed before the aforementioned clause was reduced from €200m to €120m. ‘Atlético Madrid believes the termination of the contract occurred before the end of last season due to events, acts and demonstrations carried out by the player and that is why we’ve already started procedures considered appropriate to defend our rights and legitimate interests’. The 28-year-old will now join Lionel Messi and Luis Suarez to form a deadly trident at the top of the pitch for Barcelona. Griezmann departs Atletico, having scored 133 goals in 257 appearances during his five-year spell at the club. The forward came close to joining Barcelona last year but made a dramatic U-turn, signing a new contract at Atletico before saying he wanted to leave again at the end of last season. Griezmann’s signing is expected to end speculation of Neymar making a sensational return to Barcelona this summer. The Brazilian has been heavily linked with a move back to Barcelona from Paris Saint-Germain, but it is now highly unlikely that the Catalans will press ahead with a deal. Atletico have been busy preparing themselves for Griezmann’s exit by making seven signings already in the window, including the £114m acquisition of teenage sensation Joao Felix, who was brought in from Benfica to replace the Frenchman. Reports in Spain have suggested that Griezmann will not be officially presented to fans after making his long-awaited move to Barcelona amid fears of backlash. Griezmann had angered a large section of Barcelona supporters after having a change of heart last summer to instead sign a new long-term deal at Atletico. Marca claim Barcelona have deliberately scheduled his unveiling to coincide with the relaying of the Nou Camp pitch next month, meaning no fans will be allowed inside the stands. The nearby Mini Estadi has also been ruled out as an alternative venue to welcome Griezmann to Barcelona as it is currently hosting the Cirque du Soleil show. Despite Barcelona’s decision not to present Griezmann, their marquee summer signing, the club remain confident that the new £108m man will be accepted and become a hit with their fans.-DAILYMAIL