Noah Cheploen @cheploennoah hIn politics, there are no permanent friends or enemies, only permanent interests so goes the famous adage— generally attributed to Lord Palmerston (John Henry Temple) of United Kingdom. When ODM party leader Raila Odinga landed at Kiamugumo Primary School grounds in Gichugu constituency—the venue of Kirinyanga Governor Anne Waiguru’s traditional wedding—to a rousing welcome on Saturday, he breathed life into this quote. In 2015, Raila, single-handedly pushed the governor out of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s first Cabinet where she was in charge of the Devolution docket after linking her to the Sh791 million National Youth Service scam. Although she denied the allegations terming them as political witch-hunt, Waiguru eventually resigned saying she had asked the President Uhuru to give her light duties as advised by her doctors as the corruption claims swirled like bush fire. Defamation case Waiguru, who was seen as one of the most powerful Cabinet secretaries at the time, claimed she was being targeted by the Opposition leader because of her influential position in the government. The row finally ended up in court after Waiguru sued Raila for alleged defamation capturing the country’s attention as she claimed the Opposition chief had maligned her name by calling her a thief. Waiguru eventually captured Kirinyaga governorship  and soon withdrew her defamation case in the “spirit of the Handshake” between President Uhuru and Raila at the steps of Harambee House on March 9, 2018. During last year’s Devolution Conference held in Kirinyaga, the governor presented Raila with an African horn symbolising national dialogue and paving way for reconciliation.   She presented the gift on behalf of the Council of Governors (CoG) and the master of ceremonies explained that the African horn was symbolic in that it was used to call people for consultative meetings in the past. “We have agreed to let bygones be bygones and leave the matter of the NYS scandal in the hands of investigators. She said her case against me is now settled in the spirit of reconciliation that the country has embarked on,” Raila said after holding closed-door meeting with Waiguru at his Capitol Hill offices last November. And, through his Twitter handle, Raila said on Saturday: “Was happy to join guests at the colorful traditional wedding ceremony of lawyer Kamotho Waiganjo and Governor Anne Waiguru in Gichugu. We wish them all the best and may the years ahead be filled with happiness.” The tweet signaled a new chapter of camaraderie between the two. The March 9 Handshake betweenUhuru and Raila caught everyone by surprise because nobody thought they would ever share a table after exchanging harsh words and calling each other names particularly in the hotly contested 2013 and 2017 presidential elections. Sworn enemies Last week, pictures of Uhuru and Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho taking a stroll in the coastal city went viral especially in the social media because nobody thought  the two—sworn enemies—would ever sit in the same room. The Raila-Waiguru scenario has been replicated many times over the years and the earthshaking decision by the former to fold his National Development Party (NDP) and join retired President Moi’s Kanu in 2002 lays credence to the fact that there are no permanent enemies in politics. It is worth noting that Raila had been a thorn in the flesh of President Moi for many years and even became the face of Opposition when he engineered a political merger. Raila was jailed without trial—for seven years—over the 1982 aborted coup. However, Raila, who had been appointed Kanu secretary general, decamped a few months later after Moi picked Uhuru, then considered a political greenhorn as his successor—much to the chagrin of senior politicians such as Vice-Presidents George Saitoti, Moody Awori and Kalonzo Musyoka. He was one of the high profile guests who visited Moi at his Kabarak home recently alongside Siaya Senator James Orengo, who at one time tabled a no-confidence motion in Parliament against  Moi. As he puts together his 2022 winning strategy, Deputy President William Ruto has confounded both friends and foe after turning politicians, considered as his biggest “enemies” owing to public utterances in the past—into his top defenders.