Miss Nyawi is a body positive blogger who blogs about plus size fashion on her blog Curves With Style. She is a 2017 BAKE award winner and has been blogging for more than six years. She shares her fashion secrets with Nailantei Norari How can you describe your style? My style is a mix of casual and glam. I dress in whatever makes me feel confident. What inspired you to start blogging about body positivity and on fashion? When I was in university, I noticed that I had a certain flare when it came to fashion. I loved dressing up and I would get complimented on my style. I, therefore, wanted to create a platform that would inspire others to dress well and not to get sucked into the vortex that is ‘what is the best body size’ since we are all beautiful. This brought about Curves With Style, a platform or blog to inspire other plus size women on how to dress their body. What does fashion mean to you and how does it integrate into your personal and professional life? Fashion to me is a form of expression and personality. It’s a way for me to tell others who exactly Miss Nyawi is. It is an extension of my personality. Do you think your style and body confidence has evolved over time? Oh yes, it has. I am more conscious of what I wear and less critical of my body. I have learnt to just love and embrace my body the way it is. What is that one thing people don’t know about you? I am left-handed. Oh! And I used to play basketball back in high school, despite my height. You can’t leave the house without… My wallet. Ha-ha-ha. What is your best fashion buy? My kiondo. I take it everywhere. Who is your style icon and why? It has to be Ashley Graham. She is one fearless curvy lady who just oozes body confidence. Plus her style is goals! What is your signature scent? Right now I don’t have one. I am just buying up anything with fruity notes. What do you splurge on? Candles. I have no idea why, but right now I am loving scented candles. What is the worst fashion ne faux pas in your opinion? Harem or Aladdin pants. They are just horrible…ugh! What fashion items do you think should be a staple in every girl’s wardrobe? Every girl needs a cute little black dress, simple white and black vests, Ngoma canvas shoes, a good pair of spanx, an amazing black heel and quality bras and underwear. What would be the one piece of fashion advice that you could give aspiring fashionistas? Just be you; be authentic in whatever you do. Try and inspire someone out there with your fashion sense and try to also work with other up-and-coming fashionistas. What are your thoughts on the Kenyan fashion scene? It is growing and evolving steadily. I love it!