Mercy Mwai The government’s appetite for external borrowing has now hit the roof after a new report revealed that in the first four month of this year, the government signed new loans amounting to Sh208 billion. A report from the National Treasury tabled in the National Assembly last week revealed that the loans have been contracted between the Kenyan government and commercial, bilateral and multilateral creditors. One of the loans, the report shows, is from a multilateral lender, three from bilateral lenders and two from commercial lenders. All have already been disbursed. Curiously, the report indicates the loans will be used to refinance matured financial debts as well as supporting the Sh3.2 trillion national budget passed last week and infrastructural projects. Debt profile “The total values of the six new loans signed are equivalent to Sh208 billion, all the two new commercial loans have been disbursed by the time of submitting this report,” reads the report in part. The loans include Sh3.4 billion signed on January 23 between Agency Francaise De Development (AFD) for technical assistance to support GesDek programme and will be repaid in 40 equal semi-annual installments of Sh75 million starting May 2024 to November 2043 at an interest rate of 2.17 per cent. The proceeds of the loan will be used to support the implementation of Public Financial Management Reform Strategy as well as to strengthen the budgetary risks management in the implementation of devolution. The Sh25.3 billion syndicated loan signed between the government and the Eastern and Southern African Trade Development Bank will be used to refinance and cancel in full the 2016’s two-year Sh250 billion syndicated loan facility that was arranged by the Trade Development Bank and used for liability management operation to assist in lengthening and smoothening the existing maturity profile and debt profile. The loan which will be repaid in 16 equal semi-annual installments starting January 2020 to January 2029 at an interest rate of six months of London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a margin of seven percent per annum on disbursed loan amount. Another Sh18 billion signed between the government and the Exim Bank of China to finance the Konza data Centre and smart city facilities will be used to finance design plan for ancillary facilities on the first phase of Konza city that may affect the construction of the project including internal roads systems, electricity supply system, water supply system, sewerage system and landscape engineering. The loan will be repaid in 26 semi annual repayments starting March 21, 2026 to September 21, 2038 at an interest rate of two percent per annum on disbursed loan but a commitment fee on 0.5 per cent will be payable on undisbursed balance. Delivery systems To support the Kenya social and economic inclusion the government signed a Sh24.5 billion with the international Development association to strength delivery systems and shock responsive safety nets for poor and valuable households. The loan will be repaid in 40 semi-annual repayment that will be paid in two periods, first period being 30 semi-annual repayments starting April 15, 2024 through to April 15, 2044 and then 10 semi-annual repayments starting October 15, 2044 and April 15, 2053. According to the report the loans has three components including supporting enactment of existing social protection delivery systems under the ongoing national safety net program, aces to social economic inclusion interventions that will contribute to the universal Health coverage as well as improving the shock responsiveness of safety net systems. On the other hand the Sh 25.3 billion syndicated loan facility signed between Eastern and Southern African Trade Development Fund (TDB) will be used to refinance amounts outstanding under the syndicated term loan as well as fund budget approved infrastructure development projects for the year 2018/2019 while the other Sh 10.6b loan the government and AFD is for the reinforcement of electricity Transmission network. The Sh10.6 billion loan will be used to finance eligible expenses in accordance with reinforcement of Kenyan Transmission Network to help improve security m reliability and performance of the Kenyan grid. The Sh25.3 billion will be repaid in 16 equal semi-annual repayments from February 2020 through to August 2028 at an interest rate of six-month libor while the Sh10.6 billion will be repaid in 26 equal-semi annual repayments from July 31, 2026 through to January 2013 at an interest rate of two percent per annum.