Bernice Mbugua @BerniceMuhindi Officers who were investigating circumstances under which lawyer Assa Nyakundi fatally shot his son did not have all the crucial forensic reports when they charged him with manslaughter, an investing officer has said. In an affidavit filed in court by Maxwell Otieno of the homicide section of the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI), the State claims the prosecutor relied on the threshold test, which would call for review upon receipt of crucial documents. Otieno, in response to Nyakundi’s suit which seeks to stop his prosecution, said the Ballistic Expert’s, Government Analyst and  postmortem examination reports and a copy of the firearms certificate were not available prior to the manslaughter charge. Manslaughter  charge Otieno further claims the manslaughter charge against Nyakundi was instituted without the knowledge of the Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji and the Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti. The DCI officer states that on the receipt of the forensic report, the DPP directed that Nyakundi be charged with murder after weighing the Forensic Crime Scene Reconstruction Report and his statement on what occurred. According to the officer, weighing Nyakundi’s statement under inquiry, and the forensic crime scene reconstruction report, his allegation that the firearm accidentally discharged while he was trying to holster it could not stand. “There was evidence of direct aim at the deceased’s chest, the probable offence was that of murder not manslaughter,” he stated. Otieno further accuses Nyakundi’s wife of trying to defeat justice by filing applications seeking to stop her husband from being charged with murder. When the matter came up yesterday, Senior Assistant Director of Public Prosecution Alexander Muteti told Justice Jessie Lesiit that the State intends to make an application for a three-judge Bench to hear various applications concerning the murder case. Nyakundi is yet to plead to the murder charge after his lawyers opposed the DPP’s charge sheet saying there is a pending case at a Kiambu court. The DPP, on the other hand, says he has power to institute any charge against any accused person even though there may be another pending matter in court. The judge directed that the Prosecution to file a formal application and the matter be heard by Justice James Wakiaga on July18.