Auditor General Edward Ouko has raised concerns over the Sh250 billion Eurobond issued by the government in 2014, saying it cannot be fully accounted for. A report tabled in the National Assembly on the national exchequer account at the National Treasury for the year ended June 30, 2018, shows that the expenditure incurred in the 2014/15 financial year could not be confirmed. In particular, Ouko raised concerns that the accuracy of the exchequer balance of Sh59.81 billion brought forward from 2015/16 may be affected by the outcome of the ongoing special audit. Reads the report: “As indicated in the auditor’s report for 2014/15 the receipt of net proceeds from commercial financing of Sh215.5 billion could not be ascertained as investigations are ongoing.” Ouko ( pictured) said the investigations target receipts issues, accounting and utilisation of the funds even as he clarified that the special audit into the matter has not been concluded. In his detailed analysis, the Auditor General says that transfers to 12 ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) for the period under review was at 94 per cent and 87 per cent of their budgeted allocations for recurrent and development votes respectively. Ouko said under the recurrent vote, some MDAs received as low as 56 per cent of their voted provisions while others received their total allocation while under the development vote, MDAs received as low as zero per cent of their voted provision. Despite the move, he regretted that the budget implementation process of such government agencies, whose funds were not released, may be hampered and achievement of the intended objective may not be realised due to lack of funding. The queries by the Auditor General comes even as PKF, a financial consulting firm hired by National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich to audit the debt, cleared the ministry of any wrongdoing in the use of funds despite the ongoing investigation by Ouko. In a report Treasury presented to the National Assembly in March this year, PKF said there is sufficient evidence that cash from the Eurobond were all received in the government’s main account and paid out for authorized purpose.                       –MERCY MWAI