Cheloti Joshua and KNA @PeopleDailyKe Parliament has jumped into the maize importation controversy with the National Assembly’s Agriculture Committee summoning Agriculture Cabinet secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri and Strategic Food Reserve Oversight Board (SFROB) chair Noah Wekesa to explain their disagreement over the maize importation plan. A group of Members of Parliament has also vowed to resist the intention to import 12.5 million bags. Agriculture Committee chair Adan Ali Haji said they had summoned Kiunjuri and Wekesa to appear before the committee. “We sent out summon letters last week,” he told KNA on phone. Haji said the CS has to satisfy the committee why it is necessary to import the 12.5 million bags yet the local stock held by farmers is yet to be used up. He said unscrupulous traders could be pushing for the importation so that they can flood the market with maize, thus destabilise prices. “We need to empower SFROB as part of fighting cartels that have been making a kill year in, year out as they control imports,” said Haji. Kiunjuri said importation of 12.5 million bags of maize is necessary to sustain the country until the next harvest but Wekesa has disagreed, saying only two million bags would  be sufficient. “Tomorrow’s meeting will also give us an opportunity to state clearly the position of the Legislature as far as food security is concerned. As we can clearly see and hear, the two agencies are not reading from the same script and we will stamp our authority,” Haji said. He disagreement between the ministry and the strategic reserve agency is not healthy as it can hurt farmers and consumers. And speaking in Trans Nzoia, a group of MPs said they will only allow importation of maize when local farmers have exhausted the maize in their stores. 400,000 bags Saboti MP Caleb Amisi said maize farmers in North Rift were still holding more than 400,000 bags of maize in stores and wondered why the government was in a hurry to import the cereals. He was speaking during the opening of classrooms built by the National Government Constituency Development Fund (NG-CDF) at Sango Secondary School in TransNzoia county. Amisi said it was unacceptable for the government to allow cheap maize imports at the expense of local farmers. “It is  hurting when we hear the government wants to import over 12 million bags of maize while our farmers still have the produce in their stores,”  he said. The MP said leaders in the region would not allow imported maize to saturate local market and affect the prices. “We have agreed as elected leaders and farmers that no imports should be allowed until when maize that our farmers have in their stores is purchased,” said the MP. Yatta MP Charles Kilonzo warned that allowing importation of maize would be condemning the sector to the fate of the ailing sugar industry. Kilonzo accused the government for failing to support the agriculture sector yet it is the backbone of the country’s economy. “Why should the government rush to import maize yet local farmers have lots of the produce in their stores which is yet to be bought by the government?” Kilonzo asked. Nyaribari Chache MP Richard Tongi said the timing of the planned importation of maize was suspect. “The maize in this region is almost ready for harvest. If we allow importation, the local farmers will  lack a market for their maize,” said Tongi.