Mercy Mwai and Eric Juma @wangumarci Members of Parliament want the National Intelligence Service (NIS) to be actively involved in forestalling unrest in schools. In a report tabled in the National Assembly by the Education committee, legislators held that intelligence gathering in schools was the easiest way to curb strikes in the institutions. The report cites a long second term, examination stress, high-handedness and attempts to leak exams as some of the factors behind unrest last year that affected 107 learning institutions. The MPs want parents actively engaged in determining school dates while  school boards of management should be able to create an enabling and comfortable environment for learners. They also want schools to come up with internal examinations timetables so that students can prepare sufficiently.  On delocalisation of teachers, the committee wants awareness on the same conducted. “Students unrest pose a serious threat to the educational system and the nation. They result in destruction of property, loss of learning time and psychological effects on students and staff,” the report reads. Arraigned Meanwhile, three students from Piet Girls Academy were yesterday  arraigned in a Kwale magistrate’s court for alleged attempts to burn down the school dormitory. Appearing before Senior principal magistrate Christine Auka, the suspects denied the charges that they were caught with a jerry can containing diesel, and were intending to raze a dormitory. They were released on a Sh100,000 bond each and a surety of similar amount or an alternative cash bail of Sh60,000 each. The case will be mentioned on July 23 and heard on November 7. At the same time, eight students from Usenge High School, who were allegedly  plotting to burn down the school pleaded not guilty to the charges. The suspects, who appeared before Bondo Resident Magistrate SW Mathenge, were arrested on Saturday night and accused of being in possession of five litres of petrol and a match box.  The case will be mentioned on July 22 and heard on September 2.