The National Land Commission (NLC) yesterday said it is ready to release Sh3.8 billion compensation to property owners, whose homes were brought down to pave way for the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) phase two. NLC told MPs it expects to pay the money to the Project Affected Persons (PAPs) by end of this month after being given the go-ahead by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC). The Sh3.8 billion will be paid out to owners of 106 of the 120 parcels earmarked for compensation with the rest being put on hold as EACC is yet to clear them. Appearing before the National Assembly’s Transport Committee, acting NLC chief executive Kabale Tache assured residents of Nkoroi area in Kajiado county, whose houses were been demolished to pave way for the line, that they will start receiving their dues by the end of month. Tache told MPs that payments come after the residents agreed with the new revised and harmonised rates after fresh evaluation was done following the revocation of the initial one that had exaggerated prices. Launch project She noted that the SGR Phase Two project is 98 per cent complete and is awaiting official opening by President Uhuru Kenyatta next month hence the rush to compensate PAPs. “We expect the President to launch the project in August so we hope to finish the compensation exercise by end of this month,” said Tache. The official told lawmakers that they had delayed payment because they wanted to be sure that they were doing a clean job. She said prior to EACC taking over the matter, the commission had already paid out Sh10.5 billion to some affected persons after Kenya Railways released Sh17.7 billion for compensation Lose homes “As a commission, we are not fearful, we are just being cautious; you do not want to see me being handcuffed for making irregular payments. I cannot sacrifice accuracy for speed. We have to be sure of what we are doing.  By the time EACC came in we had already paid Sh10.5 billion and you never know whether I will be held responsible for it,” she said. Kajiado North MP Joseph Manje had asked Tache why the government had delayed compensating Nkoroi residents. Transport committee chairperson David Pkosing told NLC that by not paying the PAPS they were doing a great injustice to the home owners. “When you don’t pay people, you are simply telling them that they can lose their homes. What we are seeing here is a serious problem and we are taking this as an infrastructural problem,” he said. Earlier when appearing before the committee, Kenya Railway Corporation said NLC was the best suited institution to give the way forward on the delayed compensation as they had already released the Sh17 billion to the commission,  which has been withholding the funds for the last two years. Stopped works The delays in compensation came after EACC intervened when huge variations were reported in the compensation process. Following the compensation dispute, the contractor— China Communications Construction Company— stopped works on the 120km railway line in Empaash, Tuala, Oloosirkon, Milimani, Rankau, Kandisi, Merisho, Nkoroi, Kangawa, Oloolua, Ngong, Kimuka and Suswa. The second phase of SGR is expected to reach Naivasha. Senior Treasury and Transport ministry officials have held talks with their Chinese counterparts on plans by the government to borrow another multi-billion-shilling loan to finance construction of the Naivasha-Kisumu stretch. This is despite fears among Kenyans over the rising public debt.