Zadock Angira and Kinyuru Munuhe @PeopleDailyKe The 117-year-old Administration Police, which evolved from a rural unarmed outfit to a well-resourced national paramilitary service, has finally had its mandate reduced. Most of its officers will be absorbed into the Kenya Police Service (commonly known as the regular police unit). Under the new structure, the remaining APs will mainly be attached to the Rapid Deployment Unit (RDU), Border Police Unit (BPU), APS Stock Theft Prevention Unit (APS-ASTU) and Critical Infrastructure Protection Unit (CIPU). This week, a total of 23,990 AP officers have been integrated as KPS general duty personnel, after the National Police Service Commission approved the transfers. Most of existing AP posts will now be KPS posts or patrol bases. Some of the absorbed AP officers will perform investigative duties. According to the NPS Act, crime prevention and investigation is purely the mandate of KPS. However, the core functions of the APS include dealing with stock theft, border patrol and security, and maintenance of law and order. A total of 24,572 AP officers will merge with 36,680 KPS general duty counterparts. Rift Valley region has the highest number of redeployments affecting 6,707 officers, Eastern (3,938), Central (3,109), Nyanza (2,694), Western (2,276), Coast (2,043), North Eastern (1,785) and 1,438  in Nairobi. Already, police commanders have been directed to withdraw the uniform of the affected APs. “You are directed to withdraw their kit minus the high ankle boots, black beret, jungle belt and trousers. The maroon belt, jacket, sweater and Angola shirt will no longer be allowed,” a signal from police headquarters read. New positions NPS board suspended transfers of officers from their sub-county of deployment until all officers are integrated into the KPS. The structure also clearly outlines the distinct reporting functions for the Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of KPS Edward Mbugua as ‘public security and safety, DIG APS Noor Gabow in charge ‘protective and border security’, while Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti is in charge of criminal investigations. This Friday, 200 AP officers representing the redeployed 1,438 in Nairobi region will be officially handed over to Mbugua by Gabow at the AP Training College in Embakasi. Recruitment of Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai outside the NPS just like his predecessor Joseph Boinnet is seen as a unifying factor devoid of preferences from both services. Following the restructuring, new positions have been created including Regional Police Commander, County Police Commander, Sub-County Police Commander and Officer in Charge Police Station (OCS) who will be the Ward Commander in charge of a station and its posts/patrol bases. The positions scrapped from the phased out structure are the regional commanders for APS, KPS and DCI; County Coordinating Commander as well as KPS, APS and DCI county commanders. Others are sub-county commanders for the respective formations, KPS Officer Commanding Police Divisions (OCPD), District AP Commander (DAPC) and APS Ward Commander. The changes are envisioned to achieve clear hierarchy of command, equal treatment of all officers, enhance discipline, accountability and supervision and eliminate intimidation of officers. Interior Cabinet secretary Fred Matiang’i said the changes aimed at matching the dynamism of current global trends to fully address current day security challenges.