“It haunts me to date why I did not share with him the message from the missionary. How I wish I had shared it with him . . . perhaps he might not have been killed.” These were the opening remarks of 90-year-old Joseph Awiti Mboga, a friend of the late Cabinet minister Tom Joseph Mboya, at his Kisumu home. Fifty years since Mboya was gunned down in Nairobi’s City Centre, Mboga is still full of regrets for not sharing a crucial piece of information that could possibly have prevented the minister’s death. “I have never shared this story with anyone, but today I will tell you because I cannot continue to live with it,” Mboga says, before delving into the story. It was sometime in 1964 on his way from Kendu Bay when he met a white missionary, who was also a senior official of the Seventh Day Adventist (SDA) church. The missionary, whose name he cannot recall, was on a world tour of various SDA churches in East Africa. They boarded a ship from Kendu Bay to Kisumu together and the missionary sat on an adjacent seat. “That day, I was carrying a newspaper called the Sunday Journal that had a picture of Tom Mboya on its front page. The missionary got interested in the paper after seeing Mboya’s picture,” said Mboga, adding that after the missionary read the paper, he paused for a minute and moved closer to him. “He told me that he knew Tom and described him as a ‘messiah’ for Africa and Kenya. But what shocked me is when he said that despite that fact, he (Tom) was going to be killed.” Mboga says he sought to know why the missionary thought Mboya was going to be killed and by who. The missionary, however, declined to divulge more details and instead said he had met Mboya on two different occasions. “He told me they were together in the US and in Ghana and he saw a brilliant, selfless and unique leader. He told of how, during an international press conference in the US, Mboya stood out as the best among other leaders in answering questions fielded by journalists,” Mboga said. After two hours, the ship docked at the Kisumu pier and the two parted ways. Mboga reveals that he travelled to Nairobi eager to meet Mboya and give him the information from the missionary but could not reach him. Information from missionary “On the first day, I was told by his secretary that he had travelled to Canada on official duty and would be back after two weeks. I was advised to wait,” he says. A month later he met Mboya at a social joint in Nairobi but the place was not conducive for discussion. “I really wanted to tell him what the missionary had told me, but since we were in a crowded place, I could not and decided to keep it for a later date.” The nonagenarian says that as days passed, he was transferred to Kisumu as a public health officer, and was unable to meet Mboya anymore. Five years down the line, the missionary man’s prediction came to pass. Shot dead “I was at the Kisumu showground when mayor Sam Odoyo told us that we should close because Mboya had been shot dead in Nairobi. I cried and could not believe the sad news,” he says. Mboga says Mboya’s death also killed hopes of his children schooling abroad. “I’m bitter because he had promised to take my children to America for further studies. That did not happen since I had no money to send them to international universities,” he says. Mboga says he first met Mboya in 1951 at the Nairobi City Hall where they both worked as public health officers. Even though Mboya had been employed three years before him, they became close friends. The former minister later left the City Hall job and joined the trade union movement and formed the Nairobi People’s Convention Party where he (Mboga) was recruited as one of its members. “He was a brilliant leader who Kenya and the entire continent has missed greatly,” he said.