Hillary Mageka and Harrison Kivisu @PeopleDailyKe A parliamentary committee has volunteered to reconcile Taita Taveta Governor Granton Samboja and the County Assembly following wrangles that have threatened existence of the devolved unit. The move comes even as Members of the County Assembly (MCAs) dared the governor, who on Tuesday launched a drive to collect at least 18,000 signatures required to dissolve the county government, to go ahead and make good his move. The dispute emerged following a controversial Sh5.3 billion budget for the financial year 2019/20 in which the MCAs reportedly allocated Sh41.6 million to each of their respective wards. However, Samboja accused MCAs of holding his administration hostage “in their determination to loot money meant for development”. Broker peace Now, the Senate Devolution and Intergovernmental committee has offered to broker peace between the warring parties and pleaded with the governor to halt the dissolution process and allow for mediation. “As the defenders of devolution, we cannot sit back and watch the unfolding drama in Taita Taveta County. We have been moved by our own motion to initiate a process of reconciliation and bring order to the county,” committee chair John Kinyua (Laikipia Senator) said in a press conference at Parliament Buildings. He was flanked by Senators Samson Cherargei (Nandi) and Boniface Kabaka (Machakos). “We propose at this point that the county institutions need to engage further and we are willing to mediate and support the engagement between the two institutions to arrive at an amicable settlement and avoid this direction,” he added. He said that his committee will, in seven days, invite the governor, the MCAs and other stakeholders to a mediation table to harmoniously resolve the stalemate. The Laikipia Senator explained that while the Constitution provides for the suspension of a county government, the dissolution route should only be taken after alternative resolution mechanisms are exhausted. Kinyua said the committee would take a neutral position as it seeks to mediate the dispute, but urged the MCAs to soften their stance, adding that the contentious Ward Development Fund, will be streamlined by a Bill currently before Senate. But Speaker Meshack Maganga, his deputy Chrispus Tondoo and Leader of Majority Jason Tuja yesterday said they are ready for fresh elections and promised to help the governor collect signatures. “If the governor doesn’t want more money to go to wards and has threatened to ensure county government is dissolved, then we shall help him collect signatures and we go back to the people,” said Tuja. Maganga claimed the governor has refused to dialogue with the MCAs to resolve the stalemate and accused him of being a stumbling block in the budget making process.