An education expert has emphasised the role of a parent in a child’s learning process in the new Competency-Based Curriculum. Joyce Mwaura, who was involved in the development of the new system, said a child’s successful learning will largely  depend on their parents’ willingness to work with them. She says parents are, among other things, required to help their children in reading in bid to develop literacy skills, comprehension and early reading techniques. “The new report says this can be an enjoyable bonding experience. The need to equip children with basic self-help skills such as toilet training, eating and table manners (etiquette), washing and dressing will also be the responsibility of parents,” she said during a workshop for parents on the new curriculum at  St Bakhita School in Nairobi. Mwaura’s school, Kids Zone Educational Centre, was among the 10 pilot schools where the new curriculum was piloted in Nairobi. She said schools should organise parental forums to sensitise parents on the implementation process. For parents in the city, involvement in their children’s school life may not be so complicated thanks to the availability of the Internet. But it is not that easy, given that the new system is words apart from the 8-4-4. “I just pretend to know the answer before searching online,” admits a parent of a Grade Two pupil from Nairobi’s South B. Chat groups Parents have devised ways to address the new challenge—of helping in homework— by using social media chat groups to ask for help. Some even post problematic parts of the homework on social media in the hope that friends can help. Sometime it works sometimes it doesn’t. “Our children are taught in very different ways to the way we were taught,” says the parent, citing reading sounds, which is different from the  way alphabetical letters were previously taught. In far-flung counties, complying with the requirements of the new curriculum is no mean feat. Agnes Nasieku a mother of five from Sajiloni in Kajiado Central has three children at the lower grade level. Being a class six-school dropout, she says she is finding it difficult to help her pre-primary one pupil with homework, as it is too complex. Damaris Waweru, a Grade One teacher from Moi Primary School in Nakuru, advises parents to embrace their new role in their children’s homework, saying it will help keep pace with learners performance. Marsabit Education CEC  Umuro Roba urged the Education ministry to work with counties sensitise parents, especially in the Northeastern  region, on their role in children’s education.