Reuben Mwambingu @reubenmwambingu President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday downplayed the intrigues that have shrouded  privatisation of Mombasa port and maintained that sideshows will not slow down his development agenda. He said “irrational sideshows” will not stop his development agenda, and urged the public to focus on working for the country to create gainful employment for young people. Uhuru was speaking  when he commissioned the Bandari Maritime Academy aimed at making Kenya a hub for churning out world class seafarers for shipping lines globally. His remarks come hot on the heels of the debate over privatisation of second container terminal at the port. Port privatisation Dock Workers Union (DWU) chairman Mohammed Sheria who spoke during the function, openly bashed the union’s secretary general Simon Sang saying he was behind the politics of port privatisation claims that have generated heated debate at the Coast. “Simon Sang has alleged that I have colluded with private individuals to privatise the port. He even called a press conference and said I received Sh100 million from the Transport and Infrastructure CS and further alleged that President Uhuru is among those purchasing a section of the port,” said the chair. Sheria told the president that his life is currently under threat saying he has been receiving strange calls demanding to know why he has accepted the alleged privatisation deal. “Even today I received a call from one of the senior managers at KPA who asked me why I have agreed on privatisation of the port.  So if a manager believes the lies how about a casual labourer at the port?…”posed the union boss who said he only heard of Port Privatisation claims on the media. But Uhuru said “naysayers” were free to continue their “ranting”, adding that  this will not divert his attention from serving the nation diligently. “Chairman amesema mambo ya porojo, hata mimi nimeskia lakini tunasema shetani ashindwe. Hatuna nafasi ya kuendelea na mambo ya ujinga. Tufanye kazi, vijana wapate kazi, uchumi upanuke, wa kupayuka wapayuke, sisi kazi yetu ni kazi kwa wananchi.(Chairman has talked about the rumors that are going on. I have also heard about the same. We do not have time for nonsense. Let us get down to work so that youths can get employed and our economy expands…those who want to rant can continue ranting, but our focus is to ensure that we work for this country),” said the President. Uhuru witnessed the signing of Kenya National Shipping Line shareholding agreement which he said is expected to facilitate growth of traffic at Container Terminal 2 to over 1 million TEUs, create 2,000 seafarer jobs and 1,500 sea-time training opportunities annually. Seafarer jobs “The bulk of these seafarer jobs will be generated through cruise shipping. While there are huge opportunities for Kenyans to serve in foreign ships, they have lacked opportunities to get sea time, a pre-requisite for serving on ships. The Mediterrenean Shipping Company has committed to create training opportunities for our youth and to provide about 3,000 jobs per year; and provide 1,500 sea time slots for Kenyan youth,” said the Head of State. While noting the Mediterranean Shipping Company is the second largest shipping firm in the world; and the only one that owns both cargo and cruise ships, the President said revival of the Kenya National Shipping Line will enable the country  benefit from the regional and global maritime transport value chain. He noted that about 90 per cent of Kenya’s foreign trade is dependent on maritime transport. The president at the same time flagged off 62 seafarers who are part of 119 that have been recruited by Mediterranean Shipping Company. “I am very pleased to note that 40 of them have already been assigned a ship, by the Mediterranean Shipping Company. It is also important to note that because of the partnership with the Mediterranean Shipping Company, the Kenya National Shipping Line will gain access to more than 500 ports across the world,” said the president. He said Kenya was making good progress on the blue economy journey, adding that 12 Kenyan flagged fishing vessels have so far landed at the Liwatoni Fisheries Complex even before its rehabilitation is completed.