Brighton, Thursday @PeopleSport11 Horse trainer Michael Madgwick was celebrating at the weekend when Miss Recycled became the surprise winner in the 4.15 one=mile handicap at Brighton, United Kingdom, returning wallet=enhancing odds of 100-1. It was the fillie’s first outing since October according to the Racing Post. She came in with a strong late run under jockey Tom Marquand for a “short-head victory’’. Yet the performance would have been all the more profitable for Ms madgwick if he had followed the lead of the Financial Times. As part of an ongoing investigation into the grey world of online gambling. FT reporters had also placed money on Miss Recycled = at even longer odds of 250-1. A small wager paid out close to Sh 258,060 (£2,000). The bet was placed on the Betfair Exchange, a peer-to-peer gaming platform operated by the UK`s Flutter Entertainment, a FTSF 100 sports betting group that boasts 6m customers around the world and a £4.8 billion market capitalisation. Although Betfair imposes strict compliance procedures on its UK customers, the FT`s experiment highlights a loophole that allows anonymous gamblers = sitting in countries where betting may be illegal – to avoid checks on their identities and the provenance of their money. The FT`s exact winnings were “1,982 PTE’’. Until January 1999, “PTE’’ was the foreign exchange symbol for the Portuguese escudo. Nowadays it is the accepted code for euros in the opaque world of agents, brokers and clone websites that quietly route money from a variety of countries where betting may or may not be legal to Belfair’s closely regulated gambling platform in the UK. Experienced professional It is a world where so-called “Know Your Customer’’ checks (KYC) and other anti-money laundering controls are applied rather less stringently than in countries such as the US or Britain – if indeed they are applied at all. Betting industry executives and experienced professional gamblers have claimed to the FT that large amounts of dirty money and illegal gambling could be flowing through the Betfair site, given weak regulatory enforcement elsewhere. Flutter disputed this and stated that revenue derived from a small network of what it calls B2B Partners is “immaterial’’ to the group, making up less than 1% of its £2bn in annual sales. All of its partners are expected to impose full checks on end customers, it said. Using a simple Gmail address, FT reporters set up an account at AsianConnect88, a gambling agency registered in Curacao, the Dutch Caribbean Island that has operated a light touch gambling registration service for more than 20 years. Funds were lodged with AsianConnect via Neteller an e-money transfer service, AsianConnect then provided anonymous-looking login details for a website called 9wickets, one of Belfair’s business-to-business partners which, under a master agreement with the UK Company, clones the gaming prices displayed on the main Betfair betting exchange. The long-shot bet on Miss Recycled was placed by user “wick1069’’ through 9wickets and instantaneously “matched’’ by a gambling counterpart on the main Betfair platform. Gambling companies such as Flutter are expected to perform strict checks on identity and source of funds. A spokesperson for the Gambling Commission, which acts as a regulator in the UK, said: “Ultimately, a (regulated) licensee must assure themselves that they are acting in a lawful manner and failure to do so would bring into question their suitability to hold a Commission license.’’ Company declined Testing the KYC principle, the FT invited flutter to identify the winner of the 250-1 long shot at Brighton; the company declined on grounds of privacy. The FT then invited Flutter to send a congratulatory email directly to the lucky punter; no such email had arrived by the time of publication. With the same identity used for the AsianConnect account, the FT also set up an account with Betfair in the UK, going through stringent identity checks that extended to the uploading of a birth certificate. Flutter was asked whether the effective creation of two accounts by one individual for use on Betfair amounted to a fundamental breach of its anti-money laundering controls, but the company declined to answer, citing commercial sensitivities. Gamblers and rival betting companies that claim that without tight controls on identity, peer-to-peer gambling exchanges like Betfair offer an easy mechanism to clean tainted money and in the process transfer it from anywhere in the world to a jurisdiction like the UK. Flutter said, “All our B2B partners are licensed to the operators and they are held to a high standard of verification, we conduct enhanced due diligence on the B2B partner, relevant related parties and their perspective operating licenses before entering into any relationship. Our partners are also subject to ongoing review throughout the course of the relationship.’’ Partners are required to provide full individual account information to Betfair upon request, with the company adding: “As licensed operators, all our B2B partners adhere to the `know your customer’ requirements specified by their (local) licensing authority.’’ -FINANCIAL TIMES