Mercy Mwai @wangumarci Twenty-one legislators allied to the Kieleweke team that purports to associate itself with President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday told Deputy President William Ruto to either apologise or resign over the fake assassination letter. The letter has so far seen the DP’s aide, Dennis Itumbi, arrested and charged yesterday with publishing an alarming document. Addressing a news conference yesterday, the MPs said Ruto should be probed to ascertain what he knew about the fake assassination plot since he was the first to make the claims when he alleged that three Cabinet secretaries were plotting to eliminate him. “We want the Deputy President to be probed to ascertain what he knew about this fake assassination plot. This is because he is the one who introduced the idea that there was a plot by Cabinet secretaries to assassinate him,” their statement read in part. In addition, the lawmakers also demanded that Ruto takes personal responsibility for the fear and concern over his possible assassination which has caused tension among Kenyans. According to them, the assassination claims had brought tensions in the country that could have triggered a repeat of the 2007/08 post-election violence. The MPs, Peter Mwathi (Limuru), William Kamket (Tiaty), Paul Koinange (Kiambaa), Ngunjiri Wambugu (Nyeri Town), Wangari Mwaniki (Kigumo), Silas Tiren (Moiben), Muturi Kigano (Kangema), Mercy Gakuya (Kasarani), Joshua Mwalyo (Masinga and  Teddy Mwambire (Ganze) told Ruto to formally record a  statement with Director of Criminal Investigations (DCI) on the assassination claims. According to them, Kenyans need to know whether his refusal to record a  statement was because he knew that the letter on which these allegations were based was fake. “In this regard we expect the Deputy President to make a public apology to Kenyans on causing them such anxiety based on falsehood,” said Mwathi. Letter circulated They told Ruto to fire aides involved with drafting and circulating the fake letter. The MPs added that the courts should treat the matter with the seriousness it deserves. “We demand that the DP takes personal responsibility for the fear the false allegations created among Kenyans,” said Kamket. Other MPs who attended the press conference are Elisha Odhiambo (Gem), Paul Abuor (Rongo), Caleb Amisi (Saboti), Jared Okello (Nyando), Ken Chonga (Kilifi South), Richard Onyonka (Kitutu Chache South) and Peter Masara (Suna West). They told Ruto to give Uhuru a chance to work for Kenyans and to stop blackmailing him.