Anthony Mwangi and Hillary Mageka @PeopleDailyKe The supremacy wars between the National Assembly and the Senate intensified yesterday when MPs told Cabinet secretaries not to appear before Senate committees. But in response, senators said they would continue to summon ministers because they have the powers to do so. In a heated debate on a motion about the functions of the two Houses, MPs accused senators of usurping their role. While moving the motion, Leader of Majority Aden Duale claimed CSs who respond to Senate summons would be breaking the law. “What does the CS Foreign Affairs have to do with the Senate? It is clear senators have been acting outside the law by summoning CSs,” he said. Senate Leader of Majority Kipchumba Murkomen, however, said the Constitution gives the Upper House the powers to summon anyone. “This House can summon anybody, anytime under Article 125 of the Constitution to respond on issues regarding their dockets,” Murkomen said in the Senate. Leader of Minority James Orengo agreed with Murkomen that summons by the Senate have the backing of the law. MPs also questioned the constitutionality of the establishment of the offices of majority and minority leaders in the Senate. Minority Whip Junet Mohammed said he will go to court  to stop allowances paid to the holders of the two offices. “The two offices are not backed by any law. They should therefore not receive any form of allowances,” said Junet. He said it was time for the Senate to be abolished the way the independence House was  done away with in 1966. “The time for this one to go has come,” he said. Kipipiri MP Amos Kimunya said there was need to clearly define the roles of the two Houses to avoid duplication of functions. Homa Bay Town MP Peter Kaluma accused the Senate of failing in its mandate, giving an example of the health sector problems in counties. Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung’wa said the Constitution is clear on which House  has the mandate to handle money bills. “The mandate to dispense off money bills belongs to the National Assembly but the Senate has in many occasions circumvented this provision and meddled in money bills,” said Ichung’wa. The ongoing war of words has been triggered by disagreement between the two Houses over allocations to counties, which has stalled the passing of the Division of Revenue Bill.