Hillary Mageka @hillarymageka Members of Parliament want the government to address shortage of staff and improve infrastructure in all national referral  hospitals in the wake of a damning report by House committee on the status of the facilities. They also want the State to increase funding and replace old and obsolete medical equipment at the hospitals. According a report by the National Assembly Committee on Health tabled in March, the country’s four national referral hospitals are in a sorry state and the quality of services they offer does not meet international standards. The report cites lack of equipment and facilities, inadequate manpower, leaking roofs and cracked walls, all of which are blamed on poor funding by the National government. Critical facilities such as toilets, bathroom sinks and ventilation are lacking in most of the hospitals, the report says. But now, the lawmakers want Mathari National Teaching and Referral Hospital structures revamped. “Apart from the Maximum Security Unit, if you go to the other wards where patients are held, during the rainy season, some of the houses are leaking,” said Endebess MP Robert Pukose. “Mental patients held in that hospital might not complain and talk about the irritating conditions within the hospital. However, it is our responsibility, more so the Committee, to have gone even further to get the physical outlook of it,” he added. Other referral hospitals are Kenyatta National Hospital (KNH), National Spinal Injury Referral Hospital and Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital (MTRH). Kenyatta University Teaching and Referral Hospital is the latest addition to the list. “The committee should have looked at how the Mathari National Teaching and Referral Hospital infrastructure could be developed. If you visit the hospital you will realise that it is a shame,” the Endebess legislator said. Training institutions Pukose was speaking during a debate on adoption of the report on status of national referral hospitals yesterday where MPs want MTRH and KNH to be preserved as training institutions. According to Seme MP James Nyikal, the two institutions should be financed by the government as they are training institutions.  Currently, the two hospitals are parastatals under the Ministry of Health.