Seth Onyango @SethManex All Safaricom shops will close for four hours today in honour of fallen chief executive Bob Collymore, who succumbed to blood cancer on Monday. “Safaricom shops shall be closing countrywide on Thursday July 4, between 10:30am and 2:30pm to enable his wider family to reflect on his life,” the firm said in a statement to staff and customers. At the same time, a memorial service will be held this morning at the All Saints Cathedral, Nairobi with leaders, including President Uhuru Kenyatta, expected to attend. Collymore, who was fondly referred to as Bob, was cremated on Tuesday at a private function attended by his family, close friends and colleagues. His immolation was held at an invite-only event at the Hindu Crematorium in Kariokor, Nairobi. Today, Kenyans and leaders from all walks of life will converge to reflect on the life of one of the most distinguished corporate leaders in the country. The service will commence at 9:00am. In an obituary placed in the dailies by Safaricom, the firm eulogised Bob as a person who identified new ways to empower people to use mobile technologies to transform lives. “Bob was a man of the people. He believed in Kenya so much that he took up citizenship. He was at home spending time with children from all walks of life as he was with global leaders,” read the eulogy. Bob previously worked at Vodafone, as the chief of Corporate Affairs and as Governance Director. Prior, he worked for British Telecom, Cellnet and Dixon’s in progressively senior role developing strategic initiatives that merged the growing influence of mobile telecommunications with transformative power of industry, to create solutions to change lives. Beyond, his day-to-day life, Bob was recognised globally for his efforts to create more inclusive and sustainable business models. Through his determination, he was appointed to the Global Commission on Business and Sustainable Development by the United Nations. He was also recognised as a Moran of the Burning Spear.