Noah Cheploen and DPPS @cheploennoah Deputy President William Ruto has asked Jubilee Party leaders not to derail the outfit’s mission of uniting Kenyans and transforming the country. The DP yesterday said Jubilee was formed to address the country’s politics that had been characterised by hatred, division and tribalism,  which were  a stumbling block to the nation’s unity and transformation. He assured members that the party was united and focused on its mission, dismissing those peddling division narratives as traitors and propagandists. “Those who think Jubilee Party is unstable do not understand what Jubilee stands for. Jubilee is not a party that was formed just to win elections, it has a bigger mission beyond elections and politics. It is a party that is supposed to unite the people of Kenya,” he said. “Jubilee is not going to break and whoever thinks that will ever happen is dreaming…” he added. Ruto spoke during an inter-denominational service at Africa Inland Church (AIC) Sinonin in Eldama  Ravine, Baringo county, where he also opened a twin laboratory block for Sinonin Secondary School. Abandoned duties He was accompanied by Water and Sanitation Cabinet secretary Simon Chelugui, area Governor Stanley Kiptis, MPs Kipchumba Murkomen (Elgeyo Marakwet), Moses Lessonet (Eldama Ravine), William Cheptumo (Baringo North), Daniel Tuitoek (Mogotio), John Muchiri (Manyatta), David Gikaria (Nakuru East) and former Tiaty MP Asman Kamama. The DP said Jubilee would remain united beyond 2022 elections irrespective of who will become the party’s flag bearer. He said as the President’s principal assistant he would continue supporting him to deliver the party’s development agenda.  “I am of the opinion that everyone should do his or her job. If you are an MCA, MP,  senator or PS, do your job,” he said. Ruto’s sentiments were echoed by the MPs, who maintained that Jubilee Party is intact and focused on service delivery. The leaders said the perception that Jubilee was divided has been orchestrated by senior public servants, who have abandoned their duties and were working in cahoots with a few Jubilee leaders. Murkomen said Jubilee has over 10 million members, who understand what the party stands for.  He added that the party was committed to uniting Kenyans and supporting the President to secure his legacy. The Senate Leader of Majority reiterated that the opinion of a few leaders in the Kieleweke team should not be confused for the stand of all Jubilee members. Gikaria said it was unfortunate that some civil servants tasked with serving Kenyans have opted to use their powers to advance their political interests. “Jubilee is united but there are people in public service who have abandoned their jobs for politics,” he said. Tuitoek asked Jubilee MPs to stop politicking and unite to support the quest of uniting Kenyans. Shun politics “The unity of Jubilee is important, we support your (Ruto’s) call for unity. As leaders let us shun unnecessary politics,” he said. At the same time, the leaders said they will continue supporting the church through contributions, a stance that was supported by Bishop William Kotut. The cleric asked Christians to follow biblical teachings, which encourage them to make church offerings in support of God’s work. The Deputy President launched the construction of Chemususu Water Supply Project in Eldama  Ravine town and later opened a multipurpose hall at Eldama Ravine Girls Secondary School.