Amos Abuga @PeopleSport11 Two-time Olympic champion Ezekiel Kemboi is likely to come out of retirement from track races ahead of August 20-22 national trials at the Nyayo National Stadium to be used to select a team for the World Championship slated for September 28 to October 6 in Doha, Qatar. The decorated steeplechase runner who bowed out of the track after the 2017 World Championships is among the 84 probable athletes expected to compete at the trials seeking ticket for the World Athletics Championships in Doha. Athletics Kenya (AK) seem to be keen on the return of Kemboi and Beijing Olympics gold medalist Brimin Kipruto into the steeplechase team following recent poor show by the current crop of athletes, that has seen the country lose the race, considered as their ‘traditional race’, to Moroccans and Ethiopians in recent Diamond League meets. Just a few days ago, AK president Jackson Tuwei commented on the dwindling level of steeplechase competition in the country. Kenya will head to Doha championships knowing they have produced 12 out of 13 winners at the water-and-barrier event at the words during that time, three were clean sweeps in Edmonton in 2001, Osaka 2007 and Beijing 2015. “Something has to be done soon, it is worrying to watch the lack of competiveness in the event. I don’t think the current crop of runners can win anything,” Tuwei made his assessment of the team just like he had done last month during the All Africa Games trials. Head coach Julius Kirwa says he has been in touch with the 37-year -old Kemboi and as well as Brimin Kipruto, now 33, hoping that they will return to the track to help spice the event which has been traditionally won by Kenyans. “I have talked to many athletes, but those two are needed not only to encourage the young athletes but also remind them what the race means to Kenyans,” he said. He added: “I am not worried if they opt not to come, but I will love to have them in the team one last time.” Going to the World Championships, Morocco’s El Bakkali Soufiane, who won last Friday’s Diamond meet in Monaco, the ninth leg to add to his victory in Doha during the season opener is an athlete Kirwa says needs to be watched. Ethiopia’s Wale Getnet also won the sixth leg of the Diamond league in Rabat, Morocco. “Upcoming athlete Benjamin Kigen is trying but has not hit the highest level of competition, just as we have seen in the Diamond meeting, he needs more time to hit top form, ’’ Kirwa said. Defending champion Conseslus Kipruto, who has been nursing an injury for close to a year now, has not competed this season, another major worry for the coach. “Nobody really can question the abilities of Kipruto, he remains a top guy. We remain hopeful he will hit top form by the time we head to Doha,” he said.