Khartoum, Thursday After six years abroad, Khadija Saleh returned to Sudan in March to join protesters in the streets demanding change. She was taking part in a sit-in near the Defence Ministry in Khartoum on June 3 when security forces stormed in. The area had become a centre for anti-government protests. Saleh said she was beaten with sticks, and still wears bandages on her wounds. “I came back from a safer place because I want a better future for this country,” the 41-year-old said. Women were a driving force during months of protests against President Omar al-Bashir’s 30-year rule, before he was replaced by a military council in April. But the protests didn’t stop as demonstrators demanded the military swiftly hand power to civilians, leading to a stand-off and then a crackdown. Nahid Gabralla, a 53-year-old activist, said she was beaten and threatened with rape during the June 3 raid. “Sudan can be better,” she said. “My daughter deserves to live in a nice country … We will fight for a democratic Sudan, real change and for our rights.” Clothes torn Physicians for Human Rights, a US-based group that investigates rights violations, cited local medics as saying women had their clothes torn off and raped, though the sexual violence was hard to quantify. “They know that if they humiliate the women, they will humiliate the whole people,” said 42-year-old activist Hadia Hasaballah. “None of the Sudanese women will openly say they were raped because of the stigma.” The military council has previously denied that rape took place. The head of Sudan’s Human Rights Commission, which is appointed by the presidency, said it had launched an investigation into violations committed during and after the dispersal of the sit-in, which it condemned, without giving details. Under Bashir’s rule, women’s lives were tightly controlled by men. Morality laws meant a woman could be arrested for wearing trousers. For that reason, 35-year-old Mahi Aba-Yazid wore trousers while she campaigned for change at the sit-in. She believes she was beaten more because of her choice of fashion. “There was already a bullet in my arm. I was bleeding but they continued to beat me,” she said. Duha Mohmed, a 23-year-old student who escaped the sit-in raid before returning to help the injured, said she also wanted a life where she could make her own choices. Amel Tajeldin, a 41-year-old mother of four, said she and her husband took turns watching their children.“While it was his turn to look after the children, I took part in the demonstrations,” she said. Despite the violence, Sudan’s military rulers and a coalition of opposition and protest groups agreed last week to share power for three years ahead of elections. -Agency