Irene Githinji and Kirera Mwiti @gitshee National examinations will be administered to candidates in Grades Nine and 12 under the Competency-Based Curriculum, the government said yesterday. Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha said a 26-member taskforce, headed by Kenyatta University Deputy Vice Chancellor in-charge of Administration Fatuma Chege, would decide on whether pupils in Grade Six would sit a national exam before proceeding to junior secondary. Magoha insisted there was no confusion in government on administration of exams and that everything was on course. “The issue of Grade Six is going to be dealt with through a committee of experts,” he said. Grade Nine marks the end of junior secondary while Grade 12 is the final of senior secondary level. “There are certain ambiguities I want to correct. As the government, we have decided there will be an exam after Year Nine and 12. So all this discourse of Grade Six, we are not competent enough to talk about it,” said Magoha. “There must be an exam. We appointed a taskforce and gave it a year to do certain things. It will come up with a roadmap on where we are going in terms of involving stakeholders,” he said. The CS made the remarks after a two-day consultative meeting on the CBC with the Parliamentary Education committee in Naivasha. “As stakeholders, we must get different opinions. If we all agree on everything said then either one of us will not be telling the truth or is not very intelligent, so it is normal as we walk this journey, which is going to be quite engaging …We should also stop sensationalising issues,” he said. Know statistics Magoha said the ministry requires the support of the Senate, adding that processes under the CBC were moving fast.  He clarified that the ongoing Grade Three registration exercise was not about an exam as media reports claim but getting statistics of the number of students at that level. “These are totally false reports … that we are asking for birth certificates to register them (for an exam). We want to know how many pupils we have at a particular school in that grade and this is normal,” he said. “There is no confusion and we are determined as government to make sure that we do the right thing by implementing this new curriculum. It will be of much benefit,” he added. Give input The CS said the ministry would roll out countrywide sensitisation fora on the new curriculum as one way of informing Kenyans on the new module. “We understand the anxiety among Kenyans and will go out and explain to them what we are doing and the benefits of this new curriculum,” he said. Nominated Senator Agnes Zani urged stakeholders to give their input on CBC implementation. “As stakeholders we have been part of this process which started in 2015. We are moving from knowledge to competence-based education, and we are assessing how that will be done best,” she said. She said best practices on assessment at different levels would be done, adding that even in continuous assessment, the ministry should ensure teachers do not interfere. Zani said assessment should capture holistic ideas on how evaluation will be done and oversighted. She admitted there would be drawbacks in the first three years of curriculum implementation. The committee had put the CS, Kenya National Examination Council and the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development officials to task over CBC assessment procedures. Magoha said the ministry had engaged stakeholders and would continue to do so, adding that county dialogue fora on CBC implementation would be launched on July 15 for all the eight regions.