Seth Onyango @SethManex Former vice president Kalonzo Musyoka has been appointed Kenya’s special envoy to the troubled South Sudan, ending speculation about his next political move. President Uhuru Kenyatta appointed Kalonzo, a day after his meeting with South Sudan President Salva Kirr. “This appointment is in furtherance of Kenyan’s commitment towards shared prosperity in the region, in general and to the pursuit of lasting peace and stability in South Sudan,” Uhuru said. Kalonzo is expected to help expedite the implementation of the Revitalised-Agreement on Conflict Resolution in the east-central African nation. In November, the Wiper leader was appointed to monitor the peace process in South Sudan under the Joint Monitoring and Evaluation Commission (JMEC). JMEC had been designed to foster peace in the world’s youngest nation, which has experienced protracted civil strife despite multiple peace agreements signed between President Kiir and rebel leader Riek Machar. Kalonzo’s post was formerly held by former Botswana President Festus Mogae, who stepped down in August of the same year. At the time, Mogae said he was satisfied with the peace process so far. “As the process to revitalise the Agreement on the Resolution of the Conflict in the Republic of South Sudan draws to a close, I have adjudged it appropriately to allow for the new phase of the transition period for South Sudan to be in fresh hands,” Mogae said when he stepped down. Cooperation Last month, Kenyan and South Sudan agreed to sign far-reaching agreements to boost trade and investment between the two states. Foreign Affairs Cabinet secretary Monica Juma was upbeat the country will reap significant economic dividends from the fragile state of peace in the troubled nation. “We will be launching the first joint commission of cooperation and in this, we envisage both our teams from Kenya and South Sudan are going to be negotiating a number of instruments to govern relations relating to trade and investments,” she said then. This included security, political cooperation including boarder management with the two countries signing a memorandum of understanding yesterday morning regarding a joint boarder. Kenya hopes to become the conduit of goods going to South Sudan and edge out Uganda which is the best exporters to war–ravaged nation. Speaking after a meeting her South Sudanese counterpart Nhial Deng, Juma said both countries have agreed to boost trade relations ahead of the state visit President Salva Kiir. Deng exuded hope the agreements will contribute to an increase in bilateral commercial ties and investments and pave the way for businesspeople of the two countries. “We will continue to collaborate in Kenya whether in the context of Intergovernmental Authority for Development (IGAD) or financially…there is a lot the two countries do together for the common welfare of all the citizens.