Former political detainee Koigi wa Wamwere’s mother yesterday lodged the notice of appeal in the Supreme Court registry over her exclusion from compensation for the suffering she endured 27 years ago. Among the grievances Monica Wangu Wamwere filed was that the Court of Appeal judges failed to apply substantive and restorative justice in her favour. The elderly widow is aggrieved by her exclusion from compensation on legal technicalities instead of factual issues. Through lawyer Gitau Mwara, Wangu wants the Supreme Court to make declarations that violation of her constitutional and fundamental rights and freedoms deserve redress. Wangu insists that the High Court should not apply double-standards in human rights cases where some victims are awarded compensation while others are locked out on flimsy grounds. High hopes by Wangu for a hefty Sh50 million compensation for the suffering she endured have gone up in smoke. The 89-year-old matriarch of the Wamwere family on June 28 left the Court of Appeal empty-handed after the three-judge Bench upheld the dismissal of her claim against the Attorney General by Justice Isaac Lenaola (now Supreme Court judge) when he sat in the High Court on April 15, 2016. Wangu is dissatisfied with the outcome of the six-year legal battle against the State and has challengd the decision by Appellate Judges Mohamed Warsame, Patrick Kiage and Agnes Murgor before the highest court in the land. She has instructed lawyer Gitau Mwara to file an appeal in the Supreme Court. It is a paradox that while Wangu is pursuing her quest for redress, Koigi and his two uncles — Chege Kuria and Stanley Ngigi — are demanding nearly Sh30 million compensation from the Interior ministry being individual awards by the High Court and Court of Appeal in 2015 and 2017, respectively. (See story below). Logical conclusion The elderly widow, who resides in Engashura, Nakuru county, was seeking general, exemplary and moral damages amounting to Sh50 million. She had recalled her tribulations at the hands of State security agents during “the tyranny” of retired President Daniel arap Moi. However, the Appellate Bench ruled that Justice Lenaola “interrogated the facts and evidence placed before him before coming to a lawful and logical conclusion” by dismissing her petition “in totality.” In her petition filed on May 15, 2013 before the High Court’s Constitutional and Human Rights Division in Nairobi, Koigi’s mother protested that police officers had burnt down her house in June 1986. She claimed that her house situated on Plot No. 308 at Migogo Chonjo in Subukia, was demolished in October 1987 and the property allocated to a senior Criminal Investigation Officer. Wangu had complained that similarly in August 1988, another house belonging to her and her late husband, located at Miroreni in Subukia constituency, was demolished and reallocated to a senior officer at the Office of the President. But the defining moment of her tortuous journey with police officers and the General Service Unit (GSU) dawned on March 3, 1992 at Freedom Corner in Nairobi’s Uhuru Park. Wangu and other women had gathered for a peaceful demonstration for the release of more than 50 of their sons who were in detention as political prisoners. The women were brutally battered by security forces, arrested and detained for two days without food at the Embakasi Police Station. They were later released without any charges being preferred against them. Security agent Undeterred, the women camped at the nearby All Saints Cathedral grounds for a hunger strike and continued to undergo surveillance by security agents for the next 10 months until January 19, 1993. However, the Deputy Director of Operations in the Kenya Police Service presented in court an affidavit dated May 22, 2014 in which he denied all the allegations made by Wangu. He said she had failed to disclose the Occurrence Book (OB) numbers of the alleged arrests and identity of specific police officers who allegedly violated her rights. Deputy Director of Operation of the Kenya Police Service Phillip Ndolo had pointed out that the alleged violations occurred under the dispensation of the former Constitution and therefore the appellant could not rely on the provisions of the current Constitution for redress since the law does not apply retrogressively. Justices Warsame, Kiage and Murgor rejected an assertion by Mwara that Wangu’s eyewitness account and subsequent newspaper cuttings were sufficient proof of torture. The three articles were carried by the now defunct weekly magazine — The Society — published on March 23, 1992. Lenaola had taken issue with the explanation offered by the widow for the delay and noted that since 2003 after the end of the Moi era, many aggrieved persons had approached the courts seeking redress for their constitutional violations.