Ernest Mbiri and Emmanuel Masinde Kenya Secondary Schools Sports Association (KSSSA) boys under 19 football champions Dagoretti High left nothing to chance as they beat Jamhuri High 4-0 to book a ticket to the nationals where they have vowed to fight for their maiden national title. Under the tutelage of Joseph Makokha, Dagoretti made their debut in the national stage last year where they went on to finish fourth, losing to eventrual winners Kakamega High in the semis. “We are very happy for the chance to return to the nationals slated for Kisumu next month. We lost in the semis last year but picked valuable lessons from our debut. We have capitalised on our strong points to qualify and have had time to work on our weaknesses and we are going for the national title this time round,” said Dagoretti captain Boniface Mwagemi. It will be an all-Dagoretti affair in Kisumu as their juniors dethroned Nairobi region Copa Coca-Cola champions Upper Hill. Kubasu Abuyeka’s stunning free kick in the 16th minute sealing the win for Dagorreti High in the finals to book their maiden ticket to the Under 16 national competitions. In the girls’ category Dagoretti Mixed clinched their maiden titles in both the U16 and U19 after beating Pangani Girls 5-2 and thrashing immediate former champions Olympic High by 7-1 respectively. “This is the first time my girls are going to the nationals and they are ready to give it their all. They are using this as a chance to better themselves and thus are greatly motivated,” said coach Asman Ngaiwa. Rift Valley winners Meanwhile Lang’ata High made a return to the nationals as they beat fast rising Ruthimiti Mixed 3-2 (19-25, 19-25, 25-23, 25-18, 16-14) in boys’ volleyball finals. In the girls ‘category Soweto beat Brownhill 3-0 (25-11, 25-19, 25-8) for the chance to fight for the national title in Kisumu. Former national soccer champions St Anthony’s High School, Kitale and Itigo Girls were crowned the champions of Rift Valley Secondary school Games that came to an end at Baringo High grounds. St Antony’s came from a goal down to edge out debutants Chesewew Boys from Elgeyo Marakwet 4-1 in boys’ finals match. Kitale captain Titus Kapchanga said he wants to leave the school at the end of this year with regional title after missing last year. Team coach Peter Mayoyo said they had an easy game compared to the semi-finals when they played against Laiser Hill Academy. Peter Chepkwony gave Chesewew the lead in the 10th minute but the celebration did not last as Jacob Onyango, who has been scoring in every match levelled five minutes later before Elly Saenyi adding the second into break with Kitale leading 2-1. On resumption, captain Titus Kapchanga was on target in the 64th minute before David Leon finishing the business in the 83rd minute for a 4-1 win. Itigo Girls waited until the second half to whip newcomers Gatero Girls 3-0 in the football U19.