Amos Abuga @PeopleSports11 Three-time World Half Marathon champion Geoffrey Kamworor is targeting a medal at the 2020 Olympics in Tokyo before calling it quits in the tracks. Kamworor, who finished 11th in the 10,000m at the 2016 Rio Olympic Games is taking that as an extra motivation ahead of the Games that heads to the Asian nation next year. Best known as  ‘a man of all surfaces’ in reference to his exceptional success on the road, track and in cross country, the 26-year-old on Friday won his fourth National Police Service (NPS) 10,000m title at the Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani, a race he completely dominated the opposition. At the Police championships, Kamworor won in 27:50:65, followed by Josephat Bett 28:40:58, Joseph Kitum 28:40:74 and Mathew Kisorio 28:44:63. The 2017 New York Marathon winner who was using the NPS championships to prepare for the national championships next month as well as the Copenhagen Half marathon a month after says his body is in good spirit. “An Olympic medal is the missing jigsaw in my running ambitions, that is why I am willing to hold a bit longer as I work towards that personal goal,” Kamworor told People Sport. “A lot is going on well in training. I want to keep pushing myself for better times, for better results and make the field more competitive,” added the two time world cross country champion whose bid for a third title in a row was thwarted by Uganda’s Joshua Cheptegei in March’s championships in Aarhus, Denmark. The 2015 World 10,000m silver medallist, further says his target is to do three major races in the calendar year, and therefore the World Half marathon in September as well as the World Championships in Doha later in that month are the remaining races this year. “Friday’s race was important. I was using it to gauge my form and to see if I’m ripe for the World Championships trials. I think I am good to go,” said the athlete who set a personal best of 2:06:12 in his marathon debut at the 2012 Berlin Marathon. The Kaptagat-based athlete who trains with his Global Sports Communication runners like World marathon record holder and Olympic marathon champion Eliud Kipchoge says he want to be like the world beater in future. “He (Kipchoge) is the chief motivator, he not only encourages me but all the guys we train with. He simply makes us want to be better in all aspects,” he added.