Tourism Cabinet secretary Najib Balala and leaders in Kilifi county are locked in a battle over the proposed construction of a Sh28 billion hotel-cum-residential project in Watamu. While Balala says the project would destroy Watamu as a beach destination as it would act as floodgate for such skyscrapers, leaders in the region led by Kilifi North MP Owen Baya, claim the CS is acting in the interest of some hoteliers who fear competition. Baya said the 61-floor luxury hotel project, trading as Palm Exotica, should be allowed to continue to spur growth of the tourism sector, create employment and boost the economy. “Today our Cabinet secretary has come out in public opposing the project, I wonder who he is working for,’’ he said. Beach destination Balala (pictured), said he has given his objections to the National Environments Management Authority (Nema). He said the project, if allowed, would destroy Watamu as a beach destination. “That 61-storey skyscraper on a small plot in Watamu must not be developed. I have already given my objection to Nema. If they want to build such a skyscraper, they should do it in Nairobi or Mombasa, not on the beach of Watamu,” he said. Balala said construction of apartments, residences and storey hotels should not be allowed near the beach. “We will not allow the construction of apartments, residences near the beach where only the resorts should be active. We are also witnessing the transformation of hotels into multi-family residences, especially in Diani, this is not good and we will stop all such projects,” the CS said. However, it has emerged that the project has been stopped following protests from other hotel facilities in the area which have claimed that the proposed tower would block sea view. Baya said that as a minister for Tourism Balala is supposed to ensure the sector and the economy grow, “not him beginning to listen to a few individuals.” The legislator said some hoteliers fear they could lose business and that is why they are opposed to the project. Baya said Watamu people have waited for investments which will help them, adding though investors carried out public participation, a few people claim such a thing never took place. Make decisions “If Balala wants to make decisions regarding this place, he must involve leaders, he has not consulted me, he has not talked to the governor, he has not talked to anyone,’’ he added. When completed, the skyscraper, which is 100 metres from the beach of Turtle Bay would be the tallest tower in the country with a height of 350 metres. The hotel has been designed by Italian designer Giuseppe Moscarino.