Just like his father, four-time Grammy award nominee Femi Kuti is one of Africa’s greatest musicians of all-time. He was in the country for a mega concert over the weekend and Nduta Waweru caught up with him He is known for many things, but that he is his father’s son is the most overbearing of all. Femi Kuti is proud to be Fela Kuti’s son, but that is just a part of his identity. He is a self-made musician who charted his own path to become the legend that he is. “I do not want to be my father. I love who I am,” he said ahead of his performance at the 26th edition of Koroga Festival that was held in Tatu City, Kiambu county over the weekend. It is his homage to his father (who died in August 2, 1997) that together with his siblings he set up the New Afrika Shrine in Nigeria to honour his father and highlight the unification of Africa through music. At 57, Femi still graces the stage with his charm, energy and charisma. But it did not all start like that. In previous interviews, he mentions how he was saved, musically speaking, by his maternal grandmother who once chided him for being a lazy musician. He never practised and that showed in his work. It was at this juncture that he transformed his craft. He, until today, practises at least six hours a day. Having started his career in music in his father’s band, Egypt 80, at about 17, Femi has, however, constantly reinvented himself to keep up with the demands of his music and his life. “It comes with maturity. With this kind of music, you are not allowed to remain stagnant or monotonous and that is the challenge of being a musician,” says the multi-instrument player and the world record holder of the longest single note held on a saxophone who also plays the trumpet and the piano. New generation Coming from a generation of composers — his great-great grandfather and great-grandfather were composers and musicians — Femi is impressed by the current bunch of musicians from the continent, but he has a few concerns. For starters, with the dynamism of music, he wonders what the young musicians will do when they get to his age; especially since history is abound with great musicians who could not keep up with the scene. He is also concerned about the absence of institutions that support music and learning of musical instruments. He also wants Africans to believe in themselves and their capacity to generate good music and have better lives. “Tell me what works in Africa? Your universities, healthcare services and the railway line do not work. Even music is secondary. Farmers provide food, but we still treat them like dirt. Healthcare is vital; any unhealthy nation does not survive. We look down on our names, our land and our clothes. If someone takes our beat and make something, we complain. Why don’t we make it great ourselves?” he posits. His call to governments is to set up massive propaganda to promote everything African, just as Dr Kwame Nkrumah, Patrice Lumumba and Thomas Sankara wanted to. “But the problem is, every time a good leader comes with this idea, they kill him. They stop him because everybody knows if Africa starts to think in this direction, Africa becomes a super nation,” he says. Femi, who does not like the term ‘activist’, is no stranger to politics though. “My upbringing was political and to be concerned about the underprivileged and my surrounding. Growing up, I saw no love story of mine that was greater than the suffering and hunger that was right on my doorstep,” he says. One people His sentiment about one Africa and equal opportunity for all is captured across his songs. Just as his other albums, his latest One People, One World brings forth these issues to the fore. The Afrobeat legend is already working with the next Kuti generation in his son, Made, who is a member of his band called Positive Force. “I want my son to be his own man,” he says, adding that he does not want the young man to live in his shadow, and he is proud that Made is learning the tricks of the trade and is making his own mark. That is just a glimpse of how he treats his children. He categorically says that he would never compromise his family with his fan base. He says: “If my fan base does not understand my family is my priority, then they cannot be my fans. Because I will never tell anybody to neglect their family over me.” The man, who has not listened to anyone in the last 20 years because he wants music to come from his soul, is working on his 11th album, which he says will be different, but still have elements that he is known for; Afrobeat.