ICT Cabinet secretary Joe Mucheru yesterday urged the media to report objectively and avoid stories that glorify criminal activities. Speaking in Nairobi during the inaugural release of the Media Landscape Report 2019, he wondered how the media expects to attract advertisers with such depressing news stories. “I was watching news last night, I will not say which channel, and the first six events were all on crime. I mean, how do you even advertise amidst all that depression?” he asked. The CS called on the media to ensure that stories they report about do not only focus on crime to avoid glorifying criminal activities in the country. In the report released by Trends and Insights For Africa (TIFA), a media monitoring and research company, coverage of governors and what was reported about them was featured. Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko topped at 28 per cent followed by Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu (14 per cent). Others are Migori Governor Okoth Obado (11 per cent), Mombasa’s Hassan Joho (10 per cent) and Kirinyaga’s Anne Waiguru at 8 per cent. Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui received the least coverage at 1 per cent. During the same period, crime dominated news coverage at 11 per cent followed by education and corruption with a rating of five per cent each. Mucheru also expressed concern that currently, almost all forms of media are low revenue attracting, compared to five years ago. With the growth of digital media, worldwide advertising platforms such as Google and Facebook are also eating into Kenya’s advertising market share. All these challenges, coupled with delayed payments from advertisers, painted a bleak picture on the Kenyan media landscape. Homogeneous audience According to the report, consumption of news via newspapers and radio has been shrinking over the last five years while TV has taken a huge hit from disruption by online media. Newspaper circulation has plunged by 33 per cent between 2013 and 2018 signalling tough times ahead for the medium which was once the most popular platform in the country. Radio audience has declined gradually from 92 per cent in 2017 to 66 per cent in 2019. However, radio is still the most consumed media source in the country. “The media is still giving us homogeneous audience, you go to the newspaper, which audience does the paper cover, it is not specific,” added Mucheru. Nationally, President Uhuru Kenyatta, his deputy William Ruto and opposition leader Raila Odinga received  20, 13 and eight per cent coverage respectively. On national politics, Deputy President William Ruto received 27.88 per cent coverage followed by President Uhuru Kenyatta at 20.76 per cent and Opposition leader Raila Odinga at 18.04 per cent. The coverage around these personalities was based on 2022 politics and the March 9, 2018 Handshake. Under the corruption theme, Uhuru and Ruto followed closed with 17.43 per cent and 13.13 percent respectively. In third place was Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji at 7 per cent followed by Raila Odinga at 6.2 per cent. On crime reporting, Interior Cabinet secretary Fred Matiang’i was the most mentioned at 27.88 per cent, Uhuru at 9.62 per cent an-d Obado at 8.36 per cent. Sports Cabinet secretary Amina Mohamed emerged as top under the education theme due to her previous stint in that docket. ”CS Amina Mohamed’s mention under education is linked to release of national exams results, students placement and the new curriculum, ” the report reads. Further, the report highlighted that more Kenyans have access to information, thanks to the digital migration and high penetration of mobile phones. Netflix and Showmax “The migration gave rise to an increase in both the population coverage and the number of TV channels available to viewers. Several factors contributed to these gains. First, the liberalisation of the distribution and supply of set-top boxes (STBs) that left the supply of set-top boxes in the hands of the private sector,” read the report in part. “Competition amongst STBs suppliers drove down prices. Secondly, reduced taxation and fees allowed market forces to drive the supply of set-top boxes stimulated production and import of STBs. This significantly reduced the cost of STBs to end users. In less than three years, the number of STBs in Kenya increased by approximately 465 per cent, causing the price of STBs to decrease by 80 per cent or even more in other cases.” Upsurge in internet access a key factor in influencing the supply and demand of media in Kenya. The study comes in the back drop of the emergence of fake news that is eroding the credibility of the media.  There is also increased competition from global digital media platforms such video on demand and OTTs, that is, Netflix and Showmax.