Amos Abuga @PeopleSport11 All the 84 probable athletes for the August 20-22 national championships-cum-trials for the Doha World Athletics Championships must have undergone at least four doping tests in the last 10 months, Athletics Kenya (AK) said yesterday. AK president Jack Tuwei said the championships will be held at Nyayo Stadium even as the federation works hard to adhere to the Athletics Integrity Unit (AIU) Obligations. Tuwei says the federation has booked the facility, which is currently closed for renovations, while remaining optimistic; the required areas for competitions will be ready for the trials. The world championships will be held from September 27 to October 6. During the trials the Riadha House-based federation says there will be no wild cards, the first three athletes in every race will get automatic qualification. However defending champions from 2017 worlds in London, where Kenya collected 11 medals; five gold, two silver and four bronze medals, as well as 2018 Diamond League winners have gained automatic qualification for the world event. “We won’t allow any convicted doper to compete for us no matter how good they are even after completing their ban. “As AK we will not allow the country to be mocked or ridiculed at an international level because of doping. Rules and regulations must be followed to the core. “We are working closely with the Anti-Doping Agency of Kenya (Adak), and therefore athletes must update their whereabouts at all times. Most importantly the test must have been done three weeks apart in the last 10 months,” said Tuwei ahead of the trials that will mark the culmination of regional and institutional championships. He added: “An athlete must be entered by an AK affiliate to be allowed to compete. Also AK regions will be given quotas of athletes to enter in the trials, without of course forgetting the basic: to be in the trials one must have attained the qualifying stands.” Kenya Wildlife Service (KWS) National Youth Service (NYS) and Refugees are the other categories invited for the trials. Meanwhile, AK Nairobi branch chairman Barnabas Korir defended the decision to hold the championships in the capital, saying Kasarani and Nyayo remain the two stadiums that meet the required facilities to host the event. “I am hearing that the championships should be taken to the regions, I think people are forgetting Nairobi is also a region and therefore in position to host the championships,” he said.