Hillary Mageka @hillarymageka President Uhuru Kenyatta  has pledged to allocate South Sudan land in Naivasha for development  of a dry port for its cargo ahead of completion of Nairobi-Naivasha Standard Gauge Railway. Speaking at State House, Nairobi, yesterday after holding bilateral talks with South Sudan President Salva Kiir, Uhuru said his government will help the landlocked country in the construction of the dry port that will ease movement of their goods. “The Kenyan government has responded to the request of South Sudan to set aside 10 acres of land at the inland container depot in Naivasha Industrial Park for use as a dry port,” Uhuru said. “I want to express Kenya’s commitment to the full implementation of the Lapsset projects, including the Trans-National Highway, oil pipeline and Lamu Port, among others,” he added. Deepen ties According to the Head of State, the completion of Lamu port is expected to facilitate handling of cargo destined for South Sudan. Uhuru revealed that the first berth will be ready by August while the second and third berths are expected to be completed early next year. Kiir, who is in the country on a two-day State visit, emphasised the importance of his visit and said it was a great opportunity that enabled the two countries to explore comprehensive bilateral relations and cooperation in different fields. “President Kenyatta and I have had fruitful discussions on a broad range of issues spanning from political, economic and security matters of mutual interest,” he said. “It is also gratifying to know that we have now agreed on a framework for the engagement on border issues,” he added. On the elusive peace accord signed by Kiir and his rival Riek Machar, the South Sudan leader said they had received assurance that the Kenyan government will be exerting additional efforts to bolster smooth implementation of the agreement. The two countries also reached a deal to deepen their trade ties, including a plan for Kenya to hold a trade expo in Juba in November, this year. Kiir was received at State House earlier yesterday morning at an elaborate ceremony that included  a 21-gun salute. Pacts signed The two Presidents first held private deliberations before leading their respective delegations in bilateral talks. They also witnessed the signing of several memoranda —including the Agreed Minutes of the Inaugural Session of the Kenya-South Sudan Joint Commission of Cooperation. The agreements were signed by Foreign Affairs Cabinet secretary Monica Juma and her South Sudan counterpart Nhial Deng Nhial.