Evelyn Makena and Kinyuru Munuhe @PeopleDailyKe Kenyans yesterday paid glowing tribute to Safaricom CEO Bob Collymore who died after fighting cancer for two years. He was hailed as an exemplary corporate leader, brilliant mind and shrewd steward who steered Safaricom to the epitome of innovation in the telecommunication industry regionally and globally, having served as CEO since 2010. President Uhuru Kenyatta led the country in honouring the giant telco’s CEO who died aged 61. He described him as visionary, exceptional and accomplished corporate leader who steered Safaricom to a position of admiration as East Africa’s most profitable company. “It is with a deep sense of loss that I have received the sad news of the death of Safaricom CEO Robert (Bob) William Collymore this morning.  We’ve lost a distinguished corporate leader whose contribution to our national wellbeing will be greatly missed. I convey my prayers and heartfelt condolences to the family, relatives and friends of Bob Collymore,” read part of his statement. Corporate titan Collymore died at his Nairobi home at 2.30am after battling acute myeloid leukemia. He has been receiving treatment at Aga Khan Hospital and in London, UK. Deputy President William Ruto  described Collymore as a distinguished corporate titan, whose shrewd leadership at the helm of Safaricom was commendable. “He steered the company to new heights and contributed immensely to the evolution of Kenya’s corporate scene,” said Ruto. Opposition leader Raila Odinga said Collymore had served Safaricom and the country with dedication. “My condolences to the friends and family of Bob Collymore as well as the entire Safaricom fraternity,” Raila said in a tweet. Safaricom’s second CEO was also celebrated as an honest man who despite heading the top company in the region did not use the opportunity to enrich himself. “Every CEO in Kenyan (sic) is richer than the State Corporation they head … Bob relied on his salary & bonus only … Bob Collymore was a good man in life & in death,” Lawyer Donald Kipkorir tweeted. Businessman Chris Kirubi described him as a distinguished leader who contributed to national development. Other corporate leaders termed the death of the Guyana-born British citizen as a big blow to the corporate fraternity. “This is very sad news to Kenya and the corporate fraternity. Kenya has lost a selfless and determined man who has left a mark in the lives of many,” read a statement by the Kenya Private Sector Alliance. Cooperative Bank CEO Gideon Muriuki said death had claimed a resolute advocate of service to the community who inspired and was admired by many. “We shall forever be grateful especially for the bold and the forward-looking innovations that Collymore articulated that enabled Safaricom to achieve the rare feat of delivering two often competing interests of commercial success on the one hand and  commitment to the public and community interest,” he said. Chairman of the Council of Governors Wycliffe Oparanya lauded Collymore’s contribution and support during the devolution conference and county connectivity initiatives. Speaker of the Senate Ken Lusaka and governors Lee Kinyanjui (Nakuru) and Anyang’ Nyong’o (Kisumu) were among leaders who condoled with the family. Selfless Baringo Senator Gideon Moi described Collymore as a corporate leader par excellence while his Bungoma counterpart Moses Wetang’ula said he exemplified the greatness and humility of a successful entrepreneur. Former PS Bitange Ndemo eulogised Collymore as a selfless leader while Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua described him as a brilliant strategist and fighter. “I really thought he would pull through. My condolences to his family and entire Safaricom team. Sad day,” said Mutua.  Activist Boniface Mwangi said although he and Collymore disagreed on his activism, he was a decent man. “Juliani and l had the pleasure of showing him the kind of life most Safaricom customers live. We took him to markets and ghettos. Bob and I disagreed because of my activism but he was a decent man. My condolences to Wambui and the kids,” said Mwangi.