Irene Githinji @gitshee The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) chief executive Twalib Mbarak yesterday took a swipe at government officials who contribute large amounts of money to churches and harambees. Mbarak questioned how the public officers are able to contribute money that far outweighs their salaries. “I know there are arguments about contributions in places of worship, schools and other development projects but ask yourself if you are an ordinary civil servant or middle-income worker and you take a loan and repay it for 10 years, who is this guy who walks in to contribute four times what you pay for 15 years? Logically, does it make sense,” he added. Deputy President, William Ruto is one of key government officials, who has been criticised for his frequent visits to churches where he gives lump some donations. Church development Ruto insists that his forays in houses of worship are motivated by the desire to help churches develop, terming those who are against his philanthropic endeavours as enemies of development. “When you see some of us go to church, lift hands, make this contribution it’s because we can’t forget where God brought us from. Some of us have more to thank God for,” Ruto said at a public event recently. But yesterday Mbarak said new frontiers in asset recovery is focusing on unexplained wealth by public officers, although he confessed the commission has been facing various challenges. The anti-graft agency chief said EACC has recovered stolen assets worth Sh2.7 billion through Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) and court processes, in the last four months. He gave some of the successful cases, as recovery of prime property in Kilimani area belonging to University of Nairobi and 140 acres of land belonging to Kenya Agricultural and Livestock Research Organisation (Kalro) in Naivasha. He further said the commission obtained 10 restraining court orders restricting transfer and disposal of various properties worth about Sh2.9 billion in the 2018/19 financial year. “The commission developed a policy on ADR as a mechanism to facilitate recovery of irregularly acquired assets. The use of ADR has proved to be effective as compared to court processes where cases take longer to be determined…the ADR is working,” Mbarak said during commemoration the 3rd African Anti-Corruption Day, at a Nairobi hotel. He added that EACC has a mandate under the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act 2003 to trace and recover corruptly acquired public assets and the main objective is to deter and ensure the corrupt do not get to enjoy their ill gotten proceeds. Assets recovery “We have a department called asset tracing and recovery. Everyday we partner with other agencies and the issue of asset recovery is now gaining momentum,” affirmed Mbarak. He said the notion that ADR is a way of pardoning criminals and that the commission should only settle such matters in court is misguided because the out-of-court system is usually faster. And as far as averting loss of public resources is concerned, the Mbarak said it has avoided loss of about Sh5.8 billion in the last year, because of information they get from whistleblowers. “It might be difficult to quantify but disruption is helping a lot. When you know there is a big corrupt deal that is in the process and you disrupt, it is better than wait for the money to be stolen and then start going to court and chasing people who have money for all kinds of legal services,” he added. When asset recovery will be every effective, he said it will act as a deterrence of looting since people will know that whatever they are accumulating on behalf of the State and will one day be reverted. However, he said the current framework for DIALs lacks transparency and ease of accessibility by law enforcement agencies. EACC chairman, Archbishop (rtd) Eliud Wabukala said the society today is suffocated by runaway corruption. “Africa is the most endowed continent with natural resources. However, it is also the poorest in terns of the living conditions for the majority of its citizens,” he said.