Lewis Njoka @LewisNjoka Local manufacturers have outlined five incentives they believe will enable them deliver the industrialisation pillar of the Big Four agenda. They have called on the government to incentivise manufacturing by providing tax exemptions, grants and subsidies, infrastructure development, government purchase guarantee and tax incentives for technology purchase. The industrialists say although the government had previously outlined several incentives to improve the sector, it took too long to implement. “Competitors from neighbouring countries such as Egypt, Uganda and South Africa enjoy a lot of subsidies from their governments. It is only fair that Kenyan manufacturers should be subsidised too,” said Syspro head of channel Pavir Rai. Power cost The manufacturers also lamented the high cost of power in the country saying it was a major hindrance to the growth of the sector. Only about 60 per cent of what manufacturers pay as power costs accounts for what they actually consume. Taxation accounts for 27 per cent while the remaining 13 per cent goes to third parties. They also asked the government to look into strengthening sectors that support manufacturing such as agriculture, saying the success of the Big Four agenda depended on it. Other factors derailing the manufacturing sector include high taxes, cheap imports, lack of proper technical skills, bad political climate and unavailability of raw materials. The manufacturers were speaking at a Nairobi hotel during the release of a report by Strathmore University and Syspro, an enterprise resource planning (ERP) software provider, on how well technological aids and ERP solutions have been implemented in Kenya’s manufacturing industry. Speaking during the event, Industrialisation Principal secretary Betty Maina said that lack of technical skills was a major challenge in the sector and promised to support apprenticeship programmes, internships and technical courses to bridge the gap. “There is a need to make new technologies readily available but also affordable for the manufacturers,” said Maina. Unskilled jobs “Just as manufacturing saw a shift from 80 per cent unskilled jobs 30 years ago to 12 per cent today, the next decade will see a shakeout of unskilled jobs in every industry,” said Mark Wilson, Syspro managing director, Africa. Information and Communications Cabinet secretary Joe Mucheru, called on manufacturers to develop inter-disciplinary collaborations with academia and the government saying it was the best way to thrive in this era of globalisation. Mucheru urged small and medium-sized enterprises to automate their manufacturing to increase efficiency, quality and quantity of products noting that less than 10 per cent of them were automated.