The Auditor General has waded into the controversy involving the ownership of Kenya National Shipping Line Ltd (KNSL), raising concerns over its shareholding structure. In his report for the 2018 financial year, Edward Ouko says that the reorganisation in the company shareholding which was intended to reduce the par value of the shares from Sh1,000 to Sh500 per share is still pending. The process was also meant to increase the authorised share capital from Sh100 million for 200,000 shares of Sh500 each to Sh300 million for 600,000 shares of Sh500 each and issues additional 147,363 shares. Additional shares report Ouko was to be shared between Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) (38,670 shares) and a new shareholder, Heywood Shipping Company Ltd with 108,693 shares. To effect the reorganisation, the company sought a court order to dispense with the requirement to serve notice to all its creditors, which the court declined to grant. “The management did not present evidence to confirm that the new shareholder was still willing to take up shares in the company,” Ouko says. Plan to open up ownership of the shipping line to individual companies has since exposed the process to legal litigation and a possible diplomatic spat. Four European States have since rejected the plans to privatise the second container terminal, saying that the process grants operation of the container terminal to a single operator without any competition, and lacks transparency. United Kingdom, Denmark, France and Japan particularly opposed the inclusion of Italian firm, the Mediterranean Shipping Company (MSC) which owns 33 per cent of share in KNSL, saying MSC is shipping line and therefore this will give it advantage over other lines using the port of Mombasa. In the National Assembly, coastal lawmakers led by Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir said they will be going to court to protest the President’s action which they claim will deny the coastal people of their main asset. “What the President has done is opening doors for any entity to come with a ship and start operating. What we wanted was the shipping business be wholly-owned by the State,” he said. Majority shareholding Uhuru in his memorandum asked MPs to reverse their decision on grounds that “this restriction will disadvantage the Kenya National Shipping Line whose majority shareholding is held by the government, through the Kenya Ports Authority (KPA)”. Uhuru told the MPs that the changes would assist the KNLS in collaborating with other partners, “as is the international practice, to enhance its competitiveness in the regional and global shipping markets”. However, the envoys said the structure of the shareholding of Kenya Shipping Line Ltd could raise a difficulty with regard to realising this ambition. “It raises a legitimate doubt about the impartiality of operations of the second container terminal, which should be for the benefit of the whole maritime sector and not only of a single one,” they added said in a letter. Currently, KPA owns 53 per cent stake of KNSL,  MSC, 33 per cent, while Unimar and DEG have seven per cent each.