Seth Onyango @PeopleDailyKe Former Head of Public Service Francis Muthaura has proposed radical changes to the Constitution to allow the winner and the runner-up in a presidential contest to form a coalition government. In his model, the presidential candidate with the highest number of votes and the runners-up will become President and Prime Minister, respectively, in a unity government. Submitting his memo to the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) yesterday, the veteran public servant was upbeat his proposal is the panacea for cyclical electoral violence and ethnic divisions in the country. “Once the results of the presidential elections are announced by the electoral commission, the candidates having the highest number of votes and the second highest number of votes will form a government of national coalition.” Watered down “That means we are now bringing together the two opposing sides at that point. The candidate with the highest number of votes will become the President, who will immediately appoint the second candidate as Prime Minister,” he said. Muthaura further proposed that the two will share Cabinet posts, proportionate to the number of vote they garnered in the polls. According to him, the Office of the Deputy President will not be abolished in the set up— as he will continue to deputise the Head of State and will stand in line to succeed the President should the latter be incapacitated. The sweeping proposal adds to the growing chorus from different stakeholders, pushing for the creation of the Prime Minister’s post in the anticipated plebiscite. The National Council of Churches of Kenya (NCCK) had proposed the creation of the post with two deputies’ slots, stating that it would help to make the government more accountable and inclusive. The last attempt to reintroduce the prime minister’s post was during the 2005 referendum through the Bomas Draft, which was, however, watered down to a version backed by the then government. Muthaura, a career diplomat and civil servant who was Head of Public Service during the coalition government formed by Mwai Kibaki as president and opposition leader Raila Odinga as prime minister after the bloody and contentious 2007 General Election, revealed that he has consulted and shared the proposal with the political leadership of the country and all have expressed support for the idea. Sack premier “We have seen the handshake. Why don’t we institutionalise it so that it is a permanent state of affairs?” he posed. Muthaura further elaborated that the President will not have the powers to sack the premier, to ensure stability of government. “The prime minister will chair Cabinet committees and coordinate government functions and will do so under the Executive authority of the President,” he said. In what if adopted will mark another first, Muthaura has proposed that the Cabinet, one month after formation of government, should merge the manifestos of the president and the prime minister. “In Parliament, the president’s party will provide the leader of government business while the prime minister’s party will provide the deputy leader of government business. This will make it more consultative than confrontational,” he added. The aforementioned will be done regardless of whom between the two gets the majority in Parliament, since it is the President that has the mandate to govern. According to Muthaura, every Kenyan should feel included in the government, thus by creating a grand coalition, competition would be between individuals rather than communities. Spell out roles “Competitive ethnic politics will be replaced by competition for strategy for social economic transformation,” he said. He, however, said review of the Constitution should only focus on 10 per cent, leaving 90 per cent. Further, he wants the president to appoint ministers from Parliament because currently there is a disjoint between the Legislature and the Cabinet. Meanwhile, the County Assemblies Forum has called for a constitutional review to spell out the roles of the National Assembly and the Senate. Forum chief executive Judy Udumu said the disconnect has manifested in the impasse over the Division of Revenue Bill pitting the two Houses. She proposed that the powers of governors be clipped and those of county assemblies strengthened to hold county chiefs accountable. Udumu also wants the allocations to counties increased from 15 per cent to 40 per cent. The National Police Service Commission on the other hand called for the review of Articles 245 and 256 to end the competing command between the commission and the National Police Service. Commissioner Naphtaly Rono called on the National Police Service Act to be amended to resolve the standoff. He said the same concerns had been presented to the Attorney General for review as NPSC seeks to foster harmony between itself and the service.