Crews and organisers have a busy day as they count down the hours to this weekend’s Safari Rally, a World Rally Championship (WRC) candidate event, which also doubles up as the fourth leg of the Africa Rally Championship (ARC). In readiness for tomorrow’s flag off, the close to 50 cars were undergoing scruteneering yesterday and today while crews are in Naivasha and Nakuru, for the recce, as they have a feel of the route before the actual race from Friday to Sunday. “Today (yesterday) we are inspecting around 18 national class cars and tomorrow (today) we commence sctuineering for the more than 30 ARC class cars at 8am,” said chief scrutineer Musa Locho, adding that his department is well equipped for the task ahead. The Safari is seeking re-admission to the WRC next year after an 18-year absence and safety of crew and spectators has been fronted as the key to regaining the status. The scruteneering crew has undergone training from UK motorsport experts in readiness for the Safari. “Rules to this year’s Safari are stringent and we have to ensure all cars meet the standards of the classes they are entered in. We are looking at the general safety of the car, making sure that all the sealed components conform to demands of the classes. We also have to inspect the driver and co-driver’s equipment, from their helmets, shoes, clothes, gloves among others,” added Locho. Flag off The Safari, set to be flagged off by President Uhuru Kenyatta at Kasarani Stadium, will also be observed by international WRC team experts led by Hyundai, M-Sport Ford and Toyota in readiness for the return of the WRC to Kenya. Hyundai have sent Pablo Marcos while the current WRC champions Ford M-Sport have Krzysztof Stolarczyk. Toyota Gazoo Racing Engineering Manager Jussi Luopajarvi and compatriot Rui Soares are also set to follow the Safari. These experts will be assessing the competition, the route and conditions in Kenya to give their teams a head-start in preparation should the Safari become a WRC event next year. Meanwhile, Kenya National Rally Championship (KNRC) leader Onkar Rai will be looking to extend his lead on the local scene as well as score some ARC points. The Team Kabras driver will have his co-driver Gareth Dawe, who has made full recovery from an accident, suffered during last year’s Safari, that left him out of competition for a year. The two, in a Skoda Fabia R5, are expecting stiff competition from other Kabras crews led by defending Safari champion Carl ‘Flash’ Tundo in a Mitsubishi EVO X, former champion Baldev Chager, Eric Bengi, who was fifth last year in another Mitsubishi EVO X, and Tejveer Rai in a Mitsubishi EVO X.