Amos Abuga @PeopleSports11 Kenya has prospects in marathon races during the World Athletics Championships in Doha, Qatar in September. Ruth Chepngetich and Sally Chepyego believe the country’s success will not be under question at the championships that run from September 27 to October 6. Chepngetich, the fastest marathoner this year after her exploits at the Dubai Marathon with a course record in a time of 2:17.07 says the country has abundance of talent. “Depending on how the training goes, I think we have a very strong team. Kenya has never lacked talent in marathon,” said the two-time Istanbul Marathon champion who has been training from Ngong. Chepng’etich who cites her victory in the Turkish capital last year where she set a new course record of  2:19.35 as her  best race so far says she is training adequately for that particular event. “It all goes down to preparation, I believe nothing is impossible when one has prepared well,” said the athlete. Despite Chepng’etich being the third fastest woman in the history of marathon after Briton Paula Radcliffe (2:15:25) and Kenya’s Mary Keitany (2:17:01), she still does not see the need of having a coach. “I will not be having one any time soon, I think training with my colleagues does well for me. Some athletes think I am weird, but I like it that way,” she added. That however will not make it difficult for her to work with Kenya team coaches for the Worlds, she further says she is looking forward to the experience. “I know we are talking about the national team, I want to work closely with the coaches because I know they are top and with a lot of experience,” said the athlete who hails from Kericho County. Chepyego, who finished fifth at the Paris Marathon in April, has been training in Kaptagat even as the official team training is set to kick off any time. The mother of two who has spent 10 years in Japan finished seventh at the 2013 World Athletics Championships in Moscow, Russia in 10,000m, Chepyego too believes there is width in the team. “I too believe the team is as strong as it comes, factoring the tactics from the coaches, I know we will do well,” said the 2015 world half marathon bronze winner. Kenya head coach Richard Metto too is confident of the team, saying having Edna Kiplagat, one of the most decorated women marathoners in the country, winning gold at the World Championships in Daegu, South Korea in 2011 and the 2013 in the Russia editions. After settling for silver at the 2017 competition in London serves to motivate other runners to do well. “Kiplagat boasts the second-fastest PB) of 2:19.50 and will be returning to the World Championships for the fourth time, I don’t think we need better motivation,” said Metto.