Former Kenyan Premier League champions Sofapaka have parted ways with a number of high-profile players among them captain and striker Stephen Waruru. Waruru is among four key players released by the 2009 champions as they seek to re-group ahead of the new season which kicks off next month. Other who have left ‘Batoto ba Mungu’ are top scorer Umaru Kasumba, who is eyeing a move to a second division side in Germany, international striker Pistone Mutamba, who returned to promoted Wazito FC, and winger Cliff Kasuti, who has joined Bandari. “I just felt the need for a fresh challenge after two seasons at Sofapaka where I scored 18 goals in all competitions. I’m a free agent at the moment and I have not decided my next move yet,” said Waruru, who joined the side from Ulinzi Stars. Kasumba, who also leaves the team as a free agent, had good words for the side but noted his desire to play in major leagues. “I have received a lot of offers from teams in Zimbabwe, India, Morocco, Zambia, Tanzania and even Gor Mahia but I want to play in Europe. I have landed a team playing in the German second division and talks are at an advanced stage. I will make it public once the deal is complete,” said Kasumba, scorer of 17 goals for Sofapaka last season. He added: “Sofapaka was like a family and I relished the three seasons I was there, scoring 50 goals in all competitions.” In the absence of the attacking trio, Sofapaka coach John Baraza, who is yet to make any signings, will rely on Harambee Stars striker John Avire and Kepha Aswani until he lands replacements. Meanwhile, barely a fortnight after snapping up highly-rated striker Derrick Otanga and goalkeeper Kevin Omondi from Sony Sugar, Wazito have added two more shot-stoppers, recalled an ex-striker and are eyeing a former top flight striker who is currently playing in Zambia. Wazito have raided Sony once more, brining in midfielder Joshua Nyatini, 17-year-old goalkeeper Bixente Otieno and it is understood talks are advanced level to snap up former Nzoia Sugar hit man Elvis Rupia, who ply his trade with Power Dynamos of Zambia Also on their radar is St Joseph’s Youth winger Adam Fadhili, who emerged top scorer for his team last season. Wazito have meanwhile, released defenders Eugene Ambulwa, Kassim Mwinyi and Oliver Kilonzo alongside midfielder Cain Okeyo and striker Kennedy Ayako.