Grace Wachira @yaa_grace Bob Collymore who passed away on Monday after battling cancer for two years was many things to different people, but to gospel artiste, Jimmy Gait he was the epitome of humility. Collymore appeared in the remix of the jam Furifuri, which he first released in 2012. “I wanted to feature media personalities in my remix and called Jeff Koinange and asked him to be in my video. I told him I also wanted Collymore and Julie Gichuru in it too,” Gait said. Jeff told Gait he would be meeting Collymore the next day at the Norfolk Hotel and invited him to tag along. “I showed up and Jeff introduced us. I told him about the song and the only reservation he had was that he would not be able to sing or dance. He agreed after I convinced him,” he said. The musician says Collymore called the next day, asked for directions and 10 minutes to 11am, he had already arrived at the studio before everyone got there.  It was not a walk in the park because Collymore had to record in Swahili. Gait says he was a good spot and enjoyed every bit of the production process. After that, they became good friends. “In fact, he asked me to call and text him whenever I needed to. I would ask to meet up with him in his office numerous times even without an appointment. He was such an amazing human being!” Gait said. Featuring Collymore in his song opened up doors for Gait. “His presence made Furifuri trend. Collymore was easy to talk to and he interacted freely with people. He always responded to calls and texts. From him I learnt humility. I will forever respect him,”  said the musician. Esther Muchemi, the group CEO of Samchi, a telecommunication giant says Collymore always came off as an approachable person who was willing to help. “As much as I was the chairperson of Safaricom Dealers, I would go to him even when I needed to sort out my personal business issues; I could approach him easily. He was an understanding and fair man and wanted everyone to be respected. The Give Me My Mountain author fondly describes the words Collymore penned in the book’s forward. “They were such kind words. I remember I called on him when he came back because he had missed the book launch and he sat me down. I remember telling him I was not yet there and how humbled I was because I had not achieved as much and he stopped me. He told me to stop putting myself down because the fact that I had run a business successfully was all that mattered and that was what Kenyans need to hear,” she said.