President Uhuru Kenyatta will on Friday flag-off the Safari Rally at the Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani. This year’s event comes out as special for the country as it serves as a candidate event for the return of the Safari Rally to the World Rally Championship calendar. “We look forward to a thrilling competition over the three days and ask motorsport enthusiasts to come out in large numbers to support our Kenyan participants, among them the State House Chief of Staff Nzioka Waita in Car No. 60,” said President Uhuru in a statement yesterday. Elsewhere, Kenya National Rally Championship (KNRC) driver Karan Patel is eying a top-10 finish in this weekend’s Safari Rally which doubles as the fourth leg of the Africa Rally Championship (ARC). Having retired in Section One in last year’s Safari that was won by Carl ‘Flash’ Tundo in a Mitsubishi Lancer Evo X, the youngster hopes luck will be on his side, alongside navigator James Mwangi, to get to the finish after a series of retirements. Seeded 13th in a Mitsubishi Evo X, Patel hopes that this weekend’s Safari will be to the standards of the WRC promoter as a return to the global stage will be a big boost for the drivers. Patel spent most of 2016 season in the European circuit as part of the Ford Fiesta Team, gaining experience which helped him become one of the top drivers in the local series. He also competed in five rallies in the WRC circuit in the same year. Meanwhile, ARC champion Manvir Baryan, in a Skoda Fabia, will be first off the ramp followed by five times Safari champion Tundo while former champion Onkar Rai, in a Skoda Fabia will be third to hit the road. Former Safari champion Baldev Chager, in a Mitsubishi Evo X, is fourth. The 1994 WRC Safari Rally champion Ian Ducan, this time navigated by Anthony Nielsen in another Mitsubishi EVO X, is fifth, completing the top five drivers placing. The 2019 Safari Rally has meet all the FIA criterion according to Sports Principal Secretary Kirimi Kaberia. “The government has worked round the clock to ensure that the Safari Rally returns to the WRC, Funding and preparations are done. We have no challenges except for time. It has been long coming and we hope to deliver a successful event. We are confident that we will bring back the Safari to world status next year,” the PS said.