Alvin Mwangi and Hillary Mageka @PeopleDailyKe The two men tasked with ensuring the country has adequate maize stocks in the Strategic Grain Reserve are talking at cross purposes as Kenyans stare at a possible food crisis. Agriculture Cabinet secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri and the chairman of the Strategic Food Reserve Trust Fund Noah Wekesa have issued contradictory statements on the amount of maize available in the country. Maize flour is the staple food in many Kenyan households. While the minister remains adamant that the country is facing a severe maize shortage that warrants immediate importation of the commodity, Wekesa yesterday insisted the country had adequate maize stock that would last the next two months. On Wednesday, Kiunjuri told Kenyans to brace themselves for higher maize flour prices in the next few weeks in the wake of a biting shortage of maize. The CS warned that a delay by the Cabinet to pass a resolution for the importation of maize could worsen the situation. Huge shortage “There is a huge shortage of more than 19 million bags of both animal and human feeds which need to be imported but we are yet to pass the motion in the Cabinet to authorise the importation,” said Kiunjuri. He described the situation as “severe”. But yesterday, Wekesa accused Kiunjuri of creating an artificial maize shortage for his own selfish interests. The official, who was flanked by leaders from the maize growing areas of the Rift Valley, revealed that contrary to Kiunjuri’s assertion, the country had enough maize to cushion it until the expected September harvest. “ It is not true to say that there is no maize in the country. The situation currently being created is just artificial,” Wekesa, a former Cabinet minister, said. Wekesa, whose parastatal falls under Kiunjuri’s docket, accused his boss of misleading Kenyans and warned that importing maize could hurt farmers who expect a bumper harvest in a few months. The Strategic Food Reserve Trust Fund is charged with the responsibility of stabilising food supply and prices. It is also tasked with procuring and storing adequate stocks of food for sale across the country.  On the other hand, Kiunjuri, as the CS, is charged with ensuring food security, which is one of the pillars of the Big Four Agenda that President Uhuru Kenyatta has committed his government to implement. Last month, several millers in Western and Central Kenya suspended operations because of maize shortage. According to the millers, this was as a result of the government’s delay to release two million bags from the Strategic Grain Reserve. The hardest hit processors operate in Bungoma, Busia, Kisumu, Narok, Kajiado and four other counties in Central Kenya and are all under the Grain Mill Owners Association and Grain Belt Millers Association. Wekesa, who served as minister for Education and was later in charge of Wildlife, said the country had about 2.8 million bags of maize that can feed the country until September. In his projections, Wekesa said Kenyans roughly consume about 1.5 million bags of maize a month. The former minister accused Kiunjuri of avoiding him, claiming that the CS had refused to meet him to discuss the food security issue. “ I have met with Kiunjuri only once since his appointment. When I have critical issues that I think should be addressed by the CS, I have been made to sit in the waiting room for more than four hours and when he comes out of his office he says he has other matters and goes away. I am an old Mzee whom he should give audience,” Wekesa lamented. Maize consumption Elgeyo Marakwet governor Alex Tolgos, Saboti MP Caleb Amisi and his Cherangany counterpart Joshua Kuttuny accompanied Wekesa. On Wednesday, Kiunjuri said 10 million bags out of the 12.5 million earmarked for importation would be white maize for household consumption while 2.5 million would be yellow maize for processing of animal feed.  Private companies, according to Kiunjuri, will do the importation. Addressing an agricultural forum in Mombasa, the CS said the country is in dire need of four million bags of maize after rains that were expected in June and July failed. According to Kiunjuri, every year between January and May the country imports five to six million bags of maize from countries within the  East African region but this year “we were able to get only 1.3 million bags of maize from our neighbours”. “You will also acknowledge that our neighbours were also affected… climate change is not only happening in Kenya, it is happening across Africa and therefore all other regions are disabled in one way or the other,” he said, adding: “We were expecting four to five million bags from areas of Migori, Trans Nzoia going up that way but we are not going to manage even two million… this means there will be a gap of another four million bags.” Governor  Tolgos  said most famers in the Rift Valley region had enough maize in their stores and were wondering why the government is seeking to import the grain.   “Farmers still have maize in their stores. It is high time President Kenyatta acted with immediate effect. He should not sit and watch cartels continuing to frustrate our hard-working farmers,” said Tolgos. At Parliament Buildings, Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter criticised the Agriculture ministry’s decision to open a window for duty-free importation of 12.5 million bags saying it is misinformed and in bad faith. “The only body mandated to advise the government on the same is the strategic grain reserve and not the ministry of Agriculture,” Keter told journalists and asked Kiunjuri to apologise for misleading Kenyans, insisting  that the country was food sufficient. “Kiunjuri should resign and join active politics as he seems to enjoy politicking,” the MP said. Kiunjuri’s stewardship of the Agriculture ministry has come under scrutiny, with some of   senior colleagues in government questioning his policy and strategic decisions, especially on food security.