The seamless infusion of Sheng (the local version of slang) into performance arts and culture has in a lot of ways transformed conveyance of creative content to a select demographic. Sheng (a language usually made up of Kiswahili and English, although other local dialects are occasionally fused in) has asserted itself as part of popular culture endorsed by the urban youth as an identity marker. As it is, arts and culture in the country are largely dominated, driven and shaped by the youth who dictate the creative economy. Just as art is being chiseled by this generation, so is the language. Being the preferred lingo of the young, it is now an authoritative tool of communication that has redefined spaces in literary spheres, music, film, radio, TV, advertising and ‘Nganya’ (matatu) culture, among others. A lot of trends come and go, but Sheng strongly holds its place, evolving with generations. G-Rongi, a musician and author of Lafudhi Hip Hop Poetry in Sheng, says the urban lingua is being modelled by art because the latter influences language. But it is not cast in stone. It allows for growth and evolution to occur across generations. “Sheng is a positive influence on society, especially the youth. It unifies people, drives art and simplifies communication making it easier to reach a wider audience. It also kills tribalism and only fosters grounds for all to mingle and get along. It allows creativity to thrive,” he says. In his book, the rapper wanted to set the record straight by doing away with the misunderstandings and stereotyping of the language. In Lafudhi Hip Hop Poetry Sheng, G-Rongi is convinced that this hybrid code should make it to national school curriculum. “This book served its purpose by relaying what I intended to an eager audience. I launched it in 2015 together with my music album and the response was overwhelming. The only hindrance was that book printing is an expensive affair in this country. When the book was out, it spoke to so many people,” says G-Rongi, who sees Sheng as an everlasting part of popular culture that can never fade. The hip-hopper says that is a given since this street anthem has tightly dipped its tentacles into the media and politics as well. In short, it is no longer a just ghetto code as once presumed, but a mainstream channel of communication. LITERARY POWER Through her wide knowledge in linguistics and languages, Lillian Kaviti, a Doctor of Philosophy, concurs that the constant evolution and massive acceptance of Sheng is a case of rising from ‘stigma to status’. In her publication called From Stigma to Status: Sheng and Engsh in Kenya’s Linguistic and Literary Space, she venerates Sheng’s growing significance in Kenyan Literature and popular culture saying it “blurs established boundaries between Kiswahili and English, creates a space of hybridity in which multiple voices can be heard and is likely to eventually expand the literary space in East Africa as a whole.” “Sheng is spoken by a much larger proportion of urban youth and has evolved from a stigmatised ‘ghetto’ code in eastern Nairobi into a prestigious code that symbolises ideological affinity, in-group identity, coolness, generational rebellion, linguistic innovation and rejection of tribal identities. Yet both languages have contributed to the expression of new forms of cultural meaning and to the construction of a linguistic third space between the global, represented by Western images and artefacts, and the local, represented by Kenyan or African symbols and languages,” Kaviti writes. The literary world extends to poetry, which is emerging as a hub for young creators from distinct backgrounds. As they take up space in poetry, some are intentionally crafting their work in this hybrid lingo. Spoken word artiste Teardrops, for instance, writes and performs his poems by code switching. “With Sheng, it is easier to communicate with a larger urban audience that is empowered and understands the issues I address with my artistry. It is one way to reach out to the youth and they in turn identify with you. Besides, it brings a brotherhood with which you are not judged based on your tribe,” he says. Sheng comes in two categories; the simple and complex slang. Teardrops uses the lighter version in order to teach out to more people. He sees it as an essential aspect of arts and culture that should be endeared. “The irrefutable bit about Sheng is that it is like a human being; it keeps growing and evolving with new words coming up everyday. We could say we should have universal sheng, but it’s not something that can be controlled. It has its pace,” says the poet. NGANYA CULTURE Furthermore, people in different hoods (estates) and spaces have their own code of linguistics. A perfect example is the widespread use of Sheng in the Nganya Culture where codes differ from one crew to the other depending on matatu routes. “Like Jua Cali said in his song Kuna Sheng, each hood has its own code, but the basics are the same. We can all call matatus nganya while others will say mboko. Sheng is part of the culture and industry. Some of the new words actually originate from this space and cross over,” says mathree promoter Branden Marshall. He says Sheng is a coded language used by the youth within nganya culture circles, and you would be doomed if you are young and work in this multi-billion-shilling industry, but have no understanding of the street code. You miss out on a lot. “We always use it when we want to pass a certain message and we don’t want the other parties to be in on it,” says Branden, adding that the mathree culture would be tasteless and dull without the slang. MEDIA INFLUENCE The importance of this language cannot be disputed. It has made its way into mainstream media channels. In some outlets, such as on radio, it is a primary form of communication. Ghetto Radio takes the mantle here as the matriarch pulling in listeners under its wing through sheng. The station keeps on appealing to a growing mass of young listeners who feel involved and valued. “As a radio station, we felt the need to use a language that people relate to; a language that allows people to speak freely as they do in their daily lives. Since our main target audience is people from the slum hoods, we wanted to give them the space to feel free,” says Ghetto Radio producer Elishifa Wangechi. She says the fact that big companies are using it for advertising is a clear indication of the power wielded in the language. Hence it’s now part of the culture that can’t be questioned. In her words, Sheng has given them the platform to speak to people in the best language they understand. “It is shaping and informing their comprehension of political, social and economic matters,” she says, noting that a lot of TV shows are also incorporating the language in their content. For sure, several local TV shows run on scripts written in Sheng. Mainstream newspapers also run comic strips that employ a great deal of the language capturing attention of their target readers, with People Daily’s Tribe 43 (published on Friday) being a perfect example. Comic artists such as the creators of Shujaaz have been using Sheng in their educative series to speak to the youth and are extending that with their digital broadcast reach. And as it stands, Sheng’s prominence is no longer a debate and will continue to leave a mark in creative spaces. As artiste G-Rongi puts it, it is here to stay, thrive and remain a unifying factor that leads the youth forward.