Seth Onyango Deputy President William Ruto yesterday admitted for the first time that the wrangling in Jubilee Party could give rival parties an advantage in future elections. Ruto warned that the infighting was  working negatively against the party and urged members to unite. He regretted that while opposition parties were holding strategy meetings and elections, the ruling party was mired in internal wars. “I can see other parties are organising themselves. The other day ODM held a meeting in Nakuru and Ford Kenya is holding elections to organise the party. As Jubilee we need to seek ways to organise ourselves,” he said. Speaking at the Presbyterian Church of East Africa St Luke’s church in Embakasi East constituency, Ruto hinted that Jubilee was planning a meeting to iron out differences. Party meeting He said such a meeting would renew the party’s objective of uniting and transforming Kenya, delivering on pledges and cementing its presence on the political arena. “We must, therefore, organise ourselves around national political parties with issues, programmes and policies,” he said. Ruto has in the past insisted that the party is intact and instead  accused Opposition leader Raila Odinga of sowing seeds of division in the party. The Deputy President was accompanied by Turkana Governor Josephat Nanok, Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen, MPs Moses Kuria (Gatundu South), Gichuge Kabebea (Tigania East), George Theuri (Embakasi West), James Gakuya (Embakasi North) and Kimani Ichung’wa (Kikuyu). Others were John Lodepe (Turkana Central), Patrick Munene (Chuka Igamba ng’ombe), Dominic Kosgei (Sotik), Nixon Korir (Lang’ata), Caleb Kositany (Soy), Janet Jepkemboi (Turbo) and Brighton Yegon (Konoin). Ichung’wa accused some Cabinet and Principal secretaries of dabbling in politics. “These officers should choose either to work or engage in politics, not both,” he said. He added that Jubilee would not entertain leaders who engage in politics of ethnic mobilisation. “We refuse to engage in the politics of deceit,” he said. Ruto support Nanok urged leaders to focus on development. “I don’t belong to Jubilee but I’ll stand in principle with those who are serious about transforming Kenya,” he said. Theuri said their support for Ruto was unwavering. “Jubilee has a clear road map that was drafted before the 2013 elections. The development path that we have put our country on has to be continued through steady leadership when Uhuru leaves office,” he said.