Rugby fans in western Kenya are a happy lot after it was revealed that Kakamega will host the first round of the six-leg National Seven Circuit. Bull Ring in Kakamega will be the place to be on July 20 when Kabras Sugar and Western Bulls co-host the opening leg of the 2019 season with defending champions Homeboyz hoping to get off to a winning start. Thie revelation was made yesterday during a sponsorship event between Stanbic Bank and Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) in Nairobi where the tournament received a massive windfall. Stanbic Bank upheld its commitment to the local rugby sevens series with a Sh14.35 million sponsorship package up from Sh9 million last year with cash rewards now set to extend from Division One to Division Two teams. The money will be distributed to seven parties, six being the circuit hosts, who will receive Sh1.4 million each, while the organising committee get Sh3 million. Top teams hoping to dethrone Homeboyz in Division One have an extra incentive as winners will pocket Sh500,000 while Sh250,000 and Sh150,000 go to second and third-placed sides respectively with Division Two champions taking home Sh150,000 as runners-up bag Sh50,000. “The tournament has put us in the front seat of supporting grassroots initiatives which is already providing value to a new generation keen to develop their skills. That way, we are helping maintain the men’s rugby ranking and stature at continental and global level. The tournament has also allowed us to give rugby and sports fans across the country incredible experiences,” said Stanbic Bank’s Chief Financial Officer Abraham Ongenge. Stanbic Mwamba RFC will also get a Sh6 million kit sponsorship, a 50 per cent increase from their first previous deal while there will be a women’s tournament at the Christies Sevens leg where the winners will pocket Sh100,000. “These are very exciting times for our sport. The renewal of a market leader in the banking industry as title sponsor of the National Sevens Circuit further demonstrates the confidence that corporates have in rugby and in building the sports economy,” said KRU chairman Oduor Gangla.