by Eric Juma @PeopleDailyKe Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga  has said he signed a memorandum of understanding with President Uhuru Kenyatta ahead of the famous public Handshake on March 9, last year. Raila, who did not disclose the contents of the MoU, said the two leaders had to negotiate and reach a conclusion that the country required to forge ahead and agree on what was to be done, before appearing before the cameras. He spoke at Kotoo Primary School in Gem sub-county on Saturday, during the homecoming ceremony for the head of the Church of Christ in Africa, Archbishop Patrick Ligawa. The Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) leader said he was not paid anything for the deal, adding that it was driven by the love of both signatories to see the country forge ahead in peace. “We had reached a point where we had to take bold decisions to see the nation through. I was not paid anything and I cannot. I have enough to feed myself and family and cannot sacrifice the country for anything,” said Raila, who was accompanied by former Gem legislator Jakoyo Midiwo, Siaya Senator James Orengo and Gem MP Elisha Odhiambo, among others. He called on Kenyans to support the Building Bridges Initiative that was born out of the Handshake, adding that they expect a report from the committee by this September. Once the report is out, he said, Kenyans will have to prepare themselves for a referendum over whether to make changes to the Constitution or not. Bearing fruits “Whether somebody likes it or not, the referendum shall be held,” he said. However, Raila said that the future of the country was dependent on how Kenyans will handle chronic corruption that has permeated virtually all sectors of the economy. He called for tough action against the corrupt irrespective of their position in society. The Opposition chief has maintained that Handshake is bearing fruits, adding that the peace prevailing across the country has created a conducive investment environment for both local and foreign investors.