Amos Abuga @PeopleSport11 Prize money for this year’s edition of the Family Group Eldoret half marathon scheduled for October 6 in Eldoret has gone up with organisers attributing it to  growth. The race dubbed ‘Champions Run for Autism’ will see winners in the men’s and women’s categories taking home improved packages of Sh350,000 with  Sh250,000 and Sh150,000 going to the first and second runners-up respectively. Rebecca Mbithi, acting CEO of the bank attributed the increase in prize money to the sponsorship money to Sh12 million from Sh10 million in the previous edition. “Our target is to keep growing the marathon and making it more lucrative in the years to come. As you know the proceeds from the race will go towards supporting projects that give opportunity to autistic children and help the access quality education. Ultimately we want to help affected children in all part of the country,” said Mbithi. Other entities sponsoring the event under the Family Group Foundation include Family Bank, Daykio Plantations, Kenya Orient Insurance and Alpha Asset Managers. Races regulations According to the race organisers the marathon route has slightly changed again this year this year so as to make it favourable and more competitive to the participants. The races will start at Tendwo High School. Meanwhile Athletics Kenya (AK) President Gen (Rtd) Jack Tuwei says adhering to road races regulations impresses the federation as more sponsors chip in to give the much needed support to marathon competition. “We know it is not easy to successfully organise a marathon, As AK we are pleased with this particular race and their wider societal value,” he said during the launch of the event that will be organised under supervision of veteran coach Richard Metto. “I know the number of autistic children has increased from last year and nationally, the number of schools with dedicated units for autistic children are few, something needs to be done,” said Tuwei. Registration, opened yesterday and will run until October 5 can be done online at www.familygroupmarathon.com and through Family Bank branches countrywide.  Registration fee is Sh1,000 for corporate and Sh500 for individual runners.