The symbiotic relationship between dance and Kenyans is a match made in heaven and sticks like glue. The industry is an income generating platform for many people, but as Alfayo Onyango writes, the industry still faces a myriad of challenges Whether it’s the charismatic Kenya 7s rugby team, Shujaa, breaking into unforgettable moves when they burry in a try, or Barrack Obama getting loose with pop group Sauti Sol, Kenyans and dance have an inseparable bond. Whenever our sporting heroes and heroines touch down at the airport from conquering the world, they are always met with the irreplaceable delirium of traditional dancers that take pleasure in entertaining their guests. “I do it for fun, before I can even call it a profession,” intimates Ezra of the cosmic Kenyan dance group FBI. Founded in Nairobi’s California estate, FBI has exceeded many people’s expectations. For a bunch of years now, it has dominated national contests and won accolades on international platforms. “Dance is a strong means of communication. It is a vital traditional African way of telling a story or passing a message. It is a great way of staying fit. When I dance, I do it to praise my creator. It takes me to a spiritual place where I feel no one is watching me apart from God,” says legendary Kenyan dancer, choreographer and artiste Teddy Thyaka aka Boneless. International appeal As a dancer, Boneless has had an illustrious career being a lead judge in numerous national and continental dance competitions such as Danceomania, Malta Street Dance Africa and Orange Beat Ya Street, among others. It is only encouraging to see today’s generation is no different towards their treatment of the culture. “Dancing is an art that I hold deep in my heart because it grounds me. It makes me humble and eager to learn and explore more. There is a lot that I focus on when it comes to me getting a choreography done and making a routine for it. For example, before I create a routine for a video, I really take my time to connect with the artistes in the song. I get to first and foremost, research and know more about whom I have chosen to challenge me. After doing so, I listen keenly to the beats of the song, the words and thereafter, I vibe and flow with the song as I make a dance routine for it,” says choreographer Swahiba Abulrazak, a granddaughter to veteran Kenyan musician Fadhili William. Kenya is notoriously suspect for giving the world such infectious energy through dance. The automatic contagious appeal of Kenyan dance is seen in instances such as the viral online challenge of the Odi Dance that was created by gospel artistes Timeless Noel, Jabidii and Hype Ochi. The equity of the statement that gospel music is the very core of a lot of dance moves from Kenya going global in this contemporary age is as sincere as saying Kenya is underrated in their contribution to popular culture worldwide. “East Africa has its way of staying original even though contemporary dance really functions on a borrowing and improvising culture. You can still tell a Kenyan dancer from a mile away and that has been the case for a long time,” iconic choreographer Ian Wainaina aka Nine9 tells Spice. Other Africa dance powerhouses, especially Tanzania, South Africa and Nigeria, has added to the flair with infectious dance moves such as Kwangwaru, Gwara Gwara, Shaku, Azonto, Skelewu, Kupe, Shoki, Zanku, Alingo and Antenna. Gwara Gwara lit up the world in Rihanna’s VMA tribute performance in 2016 and likewise to Donald Glover in his cultural-classic This Is America music video. Golden days “From the frantic golden days of the Nairobi clubs in town centre such as Anabelles, Boomerang, Club Visions, Lips, Beat House, to the more lux Carnivore where one could not just make an appearance without looking a certain bourgeoisie way, the dance culture was so alive in the 80s,” veteran dancer Paul ‘Cracker’ Munyao, who won international competitions all through the 80s and 70s at clubs such as Posta Club, Pumwani Club, even before the mainstream picked up such shows. It was not until international bodies camped at Carnivore with competitions such as Malibu offering winners air tickets and other prizes for greats such as Cracker and Hesbon Alingo, alongside DJ Paco Perez who is now based in Madrid, Spain. “We would really entertain spectators in places like Studio 45, Club 1900, Dream 90, Sombrero, and Hollywood, and this enabled me to go and live in Europe and America for the most part of my life in the 80s and 90s,’’ says Cracker. “Kenya Broadcasting Corporation (KBC) was a monopoly TV station back then that embraced dance, which was viewed as foreign, and started shows such as Win A Car Competition to promote the art. Back then, dance (which today is a norm on TV channels such as Channel O and MTV) was not accessible. The only way we accessed dance shows was via videotapes, but many years later, our hard work got us into incredible spaces including on shows such as The Beat. This era is much complete with guys such as FBI getting good corporate deals. It’s very encouraging,” says Wainaina. Even after waving the Kenyan flag overseas and keeping us glued to our screens, some of our popular dancers are still struggling to put food on the table. However, there are commendable efforts and work ethics by the older and newer generations of dancers to make a stable industry where the professionals can earn a sustainable living. “Our Mzuka Dance Battle competition hosted in Nairobi is slowly changing many youths’ lives as we attract competitors from far and wide to just come and compete for the cash prizes where the winner gets Sh200,000 and Sh100,000 and Sh50,000 for first and second runners-up, respectively. This warms our hearts as we have also come from far. But we have seen very little support from our leaders towards this cause that aims to keep the youth positively engaged,” says FBI’s Ezra. Adds Wainaina: “We are mentoring many youths through workshops and are well on the journey to setting up dance unions in Kenya whilst we create job opportunities, as well as a balance between show and business in Kenya.” Kanda King is one of the most iconic dance figures in the Eat African region. He says the dance industry has employed a lot of youth and that it can only get better if it had more support. “Many dancers now are relying on music videos and dance competitions, while others train others to earn a living. Dancing pays a lot as far as one stays focused. But for now, the vision is blurred, but there’s hope for even a more successful future only if dancers continue working hard,” he tells Spice. Nevertheless, Kanda says there are a lot of challenges facing professional dancers. Among them is undercharging crews and unscrupulous promoters who shortchange dancers soon after a performance. Kanda says: “That’s why I make sure I have a signed agreement between myself and the client or promoter. It is through this craft that I have been able to meet and work for big musicians including Kanda Bongo Man, Koffi Olomide, Fally Ipupa and the late Papa Wemba. Through it, I have travelled widely across Africa, UK, Germany, Norway, Seychelles and Dubai, among many others.”