The ongoing Jubilee Party wars went a notch higher at the weekend after a section of Opposition MPs attempted to change the leadership of crucial House committees. The plot by Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) legislators is widely seen as an attempt to weaken Deputy President William Ruto by removing close allies from key parliamentary committees. Sources told People Daily the elaborate plan to tame the so-called Tanga Tanga members, however, hit a snag after the “coup” leaders failed to get sufficient numbers to initiate the process of removing Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung’waas  chair of the Budget and Appropriations Committee. Also targeted for replacement is Majority Whip Benjamin Washiali, another Ruto supporter. The sources said the anti-Ruto team had not yet identified suitable replacement for Washiali. “The Orange party has hatched a plot to weaken the DP in the two Houses of Parliament where he draws his strength, making it difficult to enact legislation that would affect his standing as a candidate in 2022,” the source said. The Opposition team had chosen to start with the Budget and Appropriations Committee, which is tasked with appropriating funds. The decision to target the committee was sparked by fears that Ichung’wa and his deputy Moses Lessonet, who are both allied to Ruto, may frustrate attempts to allocate funds for a referendum. According to a highly placed source, the plot to remove Ichung’wa was hatched by a section of ODM legislators. Contacted, Ichung’wa said he was not aware of the plot and vowed to   continue discharging his mandate.  “I am hearing it from you, what I know is that the committee is united with a cause to deliver its mandate. We have just successfully finalised on the budget making process, that’s our work,” said Ichung’wa. The team also targets Washiali, another Ruto man, whom they see as an obstacle in the re-organisation of committees in the National Assembly. Planned changes Like Ichung’wa, Washiali dismissed the move terming it “an exercise in futility”. “They should understand how things work in Parliament. A Whip is picked by his party not the organs of Parliament. The only way I can be replaced is if my party leadership, that is the President and his Deputy, sanction the move,” Washiali said. During the meeting to scheme the removal of Ruto allies, it was resolved that Ichung’wa and his deputy Lessonet (Eldama Ravine) be replaced by Jude Njomo (Kiambu Town) and Makali Mulu (Kitui Central), respectively. Those reportedly in attendance included, Minority Leader John Mbadi, Minority Whip Junet Mohammed, Paul Abuor (Rongo) and Homa Bay Woman Rep Gladys Wanga. It was agreed that the team contact like-minded members of the committee, but only Fatuma Gedi (Wajir Woman Rep) had appended her signature. The reason the team earmarked Ichung’wa was meant to send a strong message to the Tanga Tanga team that if a key member of their team was vulnerable, so were others in the group. Apart from getting numbers, the move encountered another hitch after Njomo and Mulu turned down the offers, fearing political backlash. “I am aware of the plan but do not want to comment on it now,” Njomo told the People Daily. Junet said: “Yes there are such plans but I do not want to discuss the details for now.” Washiali said he was aware the minority side had met and agreed to replace Ichung’wa and Lessonet but the move failed after only three members of the committee appended their signatures.   “For them to effect the changes they require at least half of the 27 members of the committee,” Washiali said. Asked about the planned changes, Mulu, who is in China on official duty said he was not aware of any meeting called to discuss the ousters.” In the Senate, those targeted include Murang’a Senator Irungu Kang’ata and Murang’a Woman Rep Wanjiru Chege. Members of the Kieleweke, who support the Handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga, argue that their colleagues in the Tanga Tanga side were supposed to be the President’s ambassadors but have defied his directive to stop campaigning for the 2022 election and focus on his Big Four agenda. Softened stand Fearing that they would lose their committee positions, Kang’ata (Majority deputy Whip), Sabina Chege (Health chair), Kanini Kega (Trade Commitee chair) and Rachel Nyamai (Lands chair) have since either softened their stance or joined the pro “Handshake side”. Another key Ruto ally from the region, Alice Wahome, the vice chairperson of the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee, has remained defiant and unapologetic on her support for DP. Another member of the Tanga Tanga team, Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika, who is also the Senate Majority Whip, has also remained with the Ruto team.