Paris, Monday @PeopleSport11 Caster Semenya’s battle with world athletics’ governing body over testosterone-curbing regulations for female athletes will likely have long-lasting ramifications for gender definition in sport as a whole. The South African, a two-time Olympic 800m gold medallist, is locked in a bitter dispute with the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF), and both parties are awaiting a ruling from Switzerland’s supreme court on Semenya’s appeal against the regulations. Semenya is classified a woman, was raised as a woman and races as a woman. But for the IAAF, women like Semenya, with certain masculine attributes due to differences of sexual development (DSD), are classified, biologically, as men. It is a position hotly contested by South African officials. The IAAF, seeking “to ensure fair competition for all women”, argues that DSD athletes, like Semenya, born with the “46 XY” chromosome rather than the XX chromosome most females have, would have an advantage in all events based on their levels of testosterone that are in the male range. “Does the IAAF have the legitimacy to define the sex of somebody, to question that person’s civil state?” asks anthropologist Philippe Liotard, an expert in discrimination in sport. “This ruling is judging the identity of that person.” In the build-up to the 2009 world championships in Berlin, where Semenya went on to win gold in the 800m, the South African had to undergo gender verification testing to confirm her eligibility to compete in the women’s category. She was subsequently put on medication to reduce her testosterone levels, spending six months sidelined by the IAAF. “The IAAF used me in the past as a human guinea pig to experiment with how the medication they required me to take would affect my testosterone levels,” Semenya said last month. Sociologist Beatrice Barbusse, a specialist in sexism in sport, added: “Sport has been built on this dichotomy between men and women on a binary concept of sexes. “There’s not a biological split between men and women but a continuity because there are people like Caster Semenya, who find themselves in neither camp.”                 -AFP