Kinyuru Munuhe and Hillary Mageka @PeopleDailyKe At least 17 foreign directors of betting firms are due for deportation as police embarked on a swoop to arrest others whose companies have not been licensed to operate in the country or hold tourist visas and not work permits. By yesterday evening, Interior Cabinet secretary Fred Matiang’i had signed 17 deportation orders. They include 15 Italians, 12 Chinese, four Britons, six from Czech Republic, three Ugandans, four Danish nationals and three others from the US.  Others are from Serbia, Hungary, Bulgaria, Romania, Switzerland, South Africa and Turkey. Non-compliant firms The Betting Control and Licensing Board (BCLB) listed 27 firms as non-compliant to have their licences for 2019-2020 renewed. Sources privy to the crackdown within the ministry intimated that in total, at risk of deportation are 108 foreigners listed as directors and employees of 30 betting firms in the country, believed to be holding tourist visas as opposed to work permits or their licenses were not renewed by early this month. “Some are scheduled to leave today evening (Tuesday). Others will be arrested and taken to the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA) where they will be processed and deported back to their home countries,” a senior official said. Matiang’i took the decision as senators criticised him  over his decision to suspend licences of at least 27 betting and gambling companies. The senators termed his actions as malicious, suspect and out to discourage businesses in this country. Further, the lawmakers allege the BCLB has lost sense of direction to the point of being ridiculous. Contributing to  a motion on national interest moved by Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala, legislators want Parliament to develop a legal framework and conflicting jurisdiction between County and National government on betting, lotteries and casinos. “We don’t want to have a country where it’s dependent on a decision of one person. The country must be governed by the rule of the law not the rule of the jungle,” Senate Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen said as he led the House in castigating  Matiang’i. Business rivalry “Some companies are omitted from the list of punishment by the Interior ministry  as a result of business rivalry,” he alleged. His sentiments were shared by Senators Aaron Cheruiyot (Kericho), Moses Wetang’ula (Bungoma), Ali Abdullahi (Wajir), Ochillo Ayacko (Migori), Mutula Kilonzo Jnr (Makueni), Ledama ole Kina (Narok) and Johnson Sakaja (Nairobi). “Issuing such ultimatums to betting firms is unwarranted, as a House we must develop a law on gambling and betting,” Mutula said. However, he warned that social aspect cannot be ignored as gambling has broken marriages, youths committing suicide and wasting money. “Waking up of a cabinet secretary to declare certain firms non-compliant is not modern day democracy, we must have a decorum in government,” Ayacko said. The Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) through a letter dated July 15 notified all chief executives of commercial banks, mortgage finance companies and microfinance institutions of BCLB failure to renew licences of the 27 companies. Effectively, the listed firms cannot transact business. Similarly, telecommunication firms have deactivated their pay bill numbers affecting at least 12 million accounts. The firms affected include, Gamcode Limited, SportyBet Ltd, SportPesa, Betin, Betway, betPawa, PremiereBet, Lucky2u, 1XBET, Dafabet, Atari Gaming, Palms Bet, BetBoss, GalaxyBetting and Mozzar Bet.