PSCU @PeopleDailyKe President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday said the government has established county anti-terrorism action plans to reduce related threats in the country. The fight against terrorism has been devolved through the strategies to counter and prevent violent extremism. The action plans, tailored to the security needs of each county, are meant to bring together security enforcement agencies, administrators, civil society and citizens, to prioritise collective counterterrorism actions that are measurable and time-bound. Uhuru said the measures to combat violent extremism would be complemented by a Student Safety And Security Mechanism developed by the Ministry of Education. Protect children The President, who spoke  when he opened a counterterrorism conference at the United Nations offices in Gigiri, Nairobi,said the students’ programme would be rolled out in the next few months. “Its goal is to protect our children from multiple threats to their wellbeing that may make them vulnerable to radicalisation,” he said. United Nations secretary general Antonio Guterres and African Union Commission (AUC) chairperson Moussa Faki Mahamat also addressed the  conference dubbed ‘African Regional High-Level Conference on Counter-Terrorism and Prevention of Violent Extremism Conducive to Terrorism’. Uhuru said African countries need to have strong strategies to deal with violent extremism and must also have capabilities to disengage, rehabilitate and reintegrate those who reject terrorist ideologies. He added that terrorism is a Pan-African challenge and as such, Africa must come up with joint responses and solutions. Generate consensus “I call on the African Union to generate a powerful political consensus for confronting and defeating terrorism and all other forms of violent extremism conducive to terrorism,” he said. The President said Africa must speak boldly and with one voice, and declare to the enemies of freedom that “we shall not relent and we shall prevail”. He said the AU, UN and other conference participants should come up with strategies that deny terror groups the space to grow in Africa. “Discussions and solutions should propose multi-faceted approaches to combating terrorism, extremism and radicalisation, ” he said. Uhuru called on African states to enhance both their internal capacities to deal with terrorism as well as their preparedness to deal cross border threats. He said Africa has the means and the will to defeat terrorism, adding that a win against the vice will be a victory for humanity. Guterres said the UN is fully committed to work with all countries and organisations in the fight against terrorism. Mahamat said violent extremism is a threat to  Africa and solutions to counter it should also include development.