London, Sunday @PeopleSport11 England beat New Zealand in a super over thriller after the scores were tied to claim its maiden World Cup crown at Lord’s. In the super over, batting first, England scored 16 runs. New Zealand responded with 16 runs as well and in a nail-biting conclusion the winner was decided on the basis of boundary count (England: 24, New Zealand: 16). After opting to bat, New Zealand set a target of 242 for the host. Coming out for the chase, England lost early wickets and it was Ben Stokes and Jos Buttler’s partnership which took their team closer. But with the wicket of Buttler (59 off 60 balls), New Zealand saw an opening and it was Stokes’ unbeaten 84 off 98 balls playing along with the tailenders what managed to tie the match and take it to the super over.It is an absolute humdinger, and England’s run chase was drenched in drama and uncertainty until the very last ball. Chasing 242 for victory, England needed 15 runs for victory going into the final over.  Ben Stokes (84) was the man set and on strike, while Trent Boult was given the unenviable responsibility of bowling the over. England needed nine runs to win off three balls when, remarkably, Martin Guptill’s throw back to the keeper’s end hit Stokes, who was returning for two, and flew to the fence for four bonus runs that looked to have won England the game and the tournament. It was a heartbreaking moment for the Black Caps, who looked like they were on course to secure victory. England needed three off  two and then two off one before the final ball saw Mark Wood runout, and the sides were tied on 241 apiece. After a wait of 27 years, England were finally in touching distance of a maiden Cricket World Cup crown. Following a roller-coaster campaign, history will be rewritten at the Lord’s on Sunday, if the hosts can go past New Zealand in the grand finale. Courtesy the renaissance in English white-ball cricket in recent years, the Eoin Morgan-led side came into this tournament as strong contenders.  – AGENCIES