Mercy Mwai and Hillary Mageka @PeopleDailyKe National Assembly Leader of Majority Aden Duale has said the government will today publish a new Division of Revenue Bill (DoRB) to kick-start talks on what revenue should go to counties. The Garissa Township MP said the new bill will cap the sharable revenue to counties at Sh310 billion as was in the original bill that flopped last month. He said the capping would not lead to another stalemate because they are providing room for negotiations so as to come up with an agreeable formula based on the current economic times. Hold protests The development comes even as senators and governors are planning to seek an advisory on revenue sharing from the Supreme Court. The county top leaders have also planned to hold protests to pressure the National Assembly and Treasury to release funds to the devolved units. The planned demonstrations by governors and senators christened “devolution is here to stay” will also involve MCAs and will be staged outside Parliament Buildings and National Treasury offices. The leaders want an explanation from the National Assembly and Treasury on why they are opposed to the amount recommended by the Senate and Commission on Revenue Allocation (CRA). “The Council of Governors (CoG) together with the Senate and Members of the County Assemblies will tomorrow (today) jointly file an advisory at the Supreme Court on the legal issues arising from the Division of Revenue Bill 2019/20,” CoG acting communication director Ruth Chitwa said in a statement yesterday. Organise calender “The delegation will march from the Intercontinental Hotel to the Supreme Court at 8.30am and thereafter proceed to KICC for a meeting with the members of the civil society at 11am,” she added. Governors want an interpretation of CRA’s proposal, which has consistently been reduced by Treasury and the National Assembly. The Assembly has always adopted National Treasury proposals on revenue, which are always lower than the CRA recommendations. At the same time, a summit that brings together the President and the CoG, is expected to be convened  to agree on the new version of the bill before it is passed by the House. The Intergovernmental Relations Act provides that the Summit shall meet twice every year unless there is a compelling emergency to exceed the stipulated times. “The negotiations will involve the President and the CoG in a bid to break the stalemate but I cannot say when they will meet. They have their own instruments of organising their calendar,” said Duale. Embrace dialogue And yesterday, Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati said the CoG will move to court to challenge “illegalities” perpetuated by the National Assembly and Treasury. He claimed the National Assembly, which is at the centre of the division of revenue stalemate, is being used by the National government to frustrate the implementation of devolution. “We will join senators on Monday (today) and protest against the National Assembly for killing devolution,” said Wangamati, who is the CoG Finance and Resource mobilisation chair. National Assembly’s Public Accounts Committee chair Opiyo Wandayi wants a speedy solution found to end the stalemate pitting the National Assembly and the Senate over the division of revenue to pave way for the release of funds to counties. “I support remitting of funds to counties but insist on accountability,”  he said. On Saturday, Deputy President William Ruto, who chairs the Intergovernmental Budget and Economic Council, asked governors and MCAs not to rush to the courts but instead embrace dialogue to end the revenue bill stalemate.