Viola Kosome and Margaret Shilla @PeopleDailyKe The hearing of a case in which 11 people are accused of defrauding the National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB) kicked off at Kisumu Law Courts yesterday. The first two prosecution witnesses, who took to the witness stand narrated how the suspects managed to defraud the state corporation millions of shillings. Acting NCPB secretary John Ng’etich took the court through the legal process that the board is expected to follow while identifying and processing payments for farmers who deliver cereals to NCPB. He told the court that his other roles included setting board meetings, recording minutes and keeping records and was, therefore,  in a position to know who were the genuine farmers. “I would maintain records relating to quantity supplied by each farmer, all requisition made by depot of payment of maize, all payments vouchers relating to payments of white maize, list of all payments and list of all outstanding payments,” said Nge’tich. Through the Ministry of Agriculture, the cereals board generated a list of all genuinely registered farmers who qualified to sell maize to the government. Purchase process Another witness Jones Kanyaa who is the NCPB’s operations manager had worked with NCPB for 7years took the court through the purchase process. According to Kanyaa, farmers were being vetted to avoid  exploitation. In December last year, the 11 suspects were released on Sh5 million bond each with surety of similar amount. Suspects include six NCPB officials, an assistant chief and three traders who had all pleaded not guilty to the charges. The NCPB officials include Willy Kosgei (silo manager, Kisumu), Renson Korir (silo manager, Eldoret), Thomas Sang (extension officer, Soi ward), Jeremiah Omwayi (deputy silo manager, Kisumu), Laban Michira (cashier, NCPB Kisumu), Willie Sang (assistant agricultural officer, Uasin Gishu). David Korir (Sionim assistant chief) and traders Rodney Kimutai, Victoria Jebet, and Stephen Kiprop. Another trader in the matter is Caroline Chepchumba. Hearing continues.