Trade Cabinet secretary Peter Munya has termed claims that he was part of an alleged plot by senior government officials to assassinate Deputy President William Ruto as cheap propaganda. Speaking during the burial of Mzee Johnson Kilingo at Ncuii in Tigania on Saturday,  Munya asked the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) and the Judiciary to hasten the investigation and expose those behind the claims. The Cabinet secretary trashed the claims and accused some  MPs of trying to politicise the issue saying they should give the DCI and the court time to probe the murder claims. “I have never thought of killing anyone and I will never. I am telling those spreading propaganda to wait, soon the truth will come out and set us free,” he added. Munya said the meeting at La Mada Hotel involving him, Cecilly Kariuki (Health), James Macharia (Transport) and Joe Mucheru (ICT) was purely to discuss developments and Mt Kenya issues and not to plot the DP murder. The four, however, were summoned by the DCI to record statements over the alleged assassination plot. Addressing mourners, the former Meru county governor said the allegations are aimed at settling political scores saying that the ministers will continue to meet to discuss development despite the scheme laid to stop them. “We know those are some of strategies to stop us from meeting to discuss development and way forward for our nation we are not scared or shaken we are telling them we will hold many and many more and we are not stopping any time soon. Those  thinking that they will win any seat through lies and sympathy we are telling them to forget it,” added Munya. He lauded the steps made by the investigations team, adding that anybody behind the assassination claims should face the full force of the law. Political scheme The CS, at the same time, said he is ready to face the law if found guilty of the offence. “If I am found guilty of the murder plot then I am ready to face the law without favour because I am sure and Kenyans are already aware about the fake letter and the truth is coming out. This was just another political scheme to gain mileage,” he added. Munya also supported President Uhuru Kenyatta’s development track record and called on Kenyans and politicians to give him space to accomplish his pledges before his tenure ends. “I support Uhuru’s effort to unite the nation and fight against corruption but there are some politicians trying to derail his plans by bring politics in every project, we are telling them to keep off and wait for campaign time in 2022,” he said.