Former students at Starehe Boys’ and Starehe Girls’ centres plan to raise more than Sh400 million this year to finance the education of academically talented but needy students. The funds will be mobilised under the Griffin Memorial Endowment Trust (GMET), which was formed in 2009 in honour of the school founder, the legendary Dr Geoffrey Griffin. Already, the fund has a Sh200 million investment, which generates interest for the sponsorship of children from deprived backgrounds. Out of about 1,500 boys and girls in the Starehe Schools, some 70 per cent rely on the school and donors for food, accommodation, health and learning. “Securing Starehe into the future and perpetuity requires the strengthening of GMET. It is estimated that with 2,000 endowments of Sh1 million each, totaling Sh2 billion, the GMET fund will guarantee free places in both the Starehe schools for as long as both GMET and the schools are in existence,” said Raymond Rono, Chairman of the Old Starehian Society. Starehe Boys, which celebrates 60 years of existence this year under the theme Securing Starehe for Another 60 Years, has a tradition of offering scholarships for students, awarded annually, on the basis of need and performance in the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) examinations. “Stahere@60 celebrations provide a good opportunity to focus on fundraising for the GMET endowments, with a target of Shh600 million in 2019. This means Sh400 million to be raised through Starehe@60 celebrations and other fundraising efforts,” said Rono. He spoke before he embarked on a fund-raising walk from Kaboi Primary School in Nandi county to Starehe Boys’ Centre in Nairobi last week. The walk seeks to raise Sh10 million and will see Rono cover 350km in two weeks, traversing eight counties and 22 constituencies. It is sponsored by D Light, a company that provides affordable, high quality off-grid solar systems. The function was attended by D Light’s regional business manager for North Rift, Nixon Kotut and Aldai MP Cornelius Serem, among others.