Peter Okong’o @PeopleDailyKe When Robert Collymore took up the reigns of Safaricom from Michael Joseph in 2010, his biggest challenge was how to maintain a market leader that had grown at record pace in just 10 years. Nine years later, Collymore leaves behind East Africa’s most profitable company and news of his death did not erode its stock price at the Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE). The company is now vastly different from when he joined in 2010. Its shares are the most heavily traded at the NSE, while it controls about 63 per cent of the country’s mobile market, Yesterday, the stock price opened 2.7 per cent lower trading at Sh27.35 having closed at Sh27.55 last Friday. However, the stock remained the biggest mover with 4.8 million shares to close the day at Sh28.10. After Collymore assumed office, net profit steadily grew from Sh13.2 billion in 2011 to Sh55 billion for the full year ending March 2018. During his tenure at the helm of the telco, Collymore and the board were aware of changing dynamics in the market. Most of Safaricom’s revenue was still coming from voice, with none-voice earnings accounting for just 24 per cent. The future was data. Voice revenues while still growing, were approaching their peak and other players were positioning themselves to corner the rich and fast-growing data market. Collymore’s brief was to transform Safaricom into a fully converged communications provider. Capital expenditure would now be largely directed towards key areas of fixed data infrastructure, including strategic acquisitions, to support this vision. In 2011, Collymore initiated Mavuno 2.0, a cost-engineering initiative to strengthen the firm’s cost efficiency. “Competition is becoming more intense, retail prices are falling quickly, technology is evolving rapidly and becoming more complex, there is greater regulatory scrutiny and most importantly customers are becoming more demanding,” wrote Collymore in his notes to the company’s 2011 financial report. And by 2015, Safaricom had a mobile penetration reach of 81 per cent of Kenya’s landmass with a mix of 2G, and 3G but the firm was already rolling out 4G network, starting with Nairobi, to support data revenue growth. Acquisition of additional spectrum by buying the assets of Essar Telecom helped boost network coverage. By 2017, Safaricom enjoyed a 71.9 per cent market share with the value of its mobile money transactions totaling Sh6.9 trillion. Collymore had overseen a phenomenal growth in the company’s Lipa Na M-Pesa merchants to over 50,000 and more than 130,000 agents countrywide serving 27 million registered users of which 19 million were active every month. When rivals claimed that Safaricom should be declared a dominant player, Collymore insisted that the company’s perceived market dominance was purely down to prudent investments and a significant focus on customer retention, fighting off attempts by the telecoms regulator to break up the company into two, the financial services business and the telecoms business, due to its dominant size. “While Safaricom’s market share in some segments remains high, this has been attained through prudent investments and continuous innovation, both of which are central to our strategy,” he noted in the 2017 financial report. In that year, the number of mobile data customers had grown to 16.6 million driven by fibre connections to homes and commercial buildings. The firm also upped its corporate social responsibility initiatives, investing in more than 120 projects through the Safaricom Foundation, and building partnerships in health, education and energy through M-Tiba, Eneza and M-Kopa. Transformative innovation “We value partnerships because we realise we cannot achieve success on our own. We also know that we have the right mix of talent and technology to transform lives,” he said. Safaricom is among the few top listed firms in Kenya where women make up at least 50 per cent of its workforce with 32 per cent in top management, reflecting Collymore’s firm belief in equity. Collymore, who was 61, had agreed in May to serve another year in the role after the government, which owns 35 per cent of the company, insisted that a local was picked to succeed him, complicating the hiring process.