Politician Koigi wa Wamwere is pursuing payment of more than Sh20 million he was awarded by the Court of Appeal four years ago for his tribulations in police and prison custody between 1990 and 1993. Two of his uncles, Chege Kuria and Stanley Ngigi, are also demanding settlement of their compensation from the Interior Ministry following their award of Sh4 million each by High Court Judge John Mativo on October 31, 2017. Justice Mativo had ruled that their fundamental rights and freedoms were grossly violated and they deserved monetary damages for the infringement of their liberty and human dignity by Special Branch officers. The two victims were arrested at their Engachura homes in Nakuru county on December 16, 1990 and driven to Nairobi where they were interrogated in connection with their nephew’s alleged ties with the underground ‘Mwakenya’ and Kenya Patriotic Front movements. They were dumped at Westlands in Nairobi on December 28, 1990 after their torture at Nyayo House. Koigi is still dissatisfied with the dismissal by the Court of Appeal of his Sh200 million compensation claim for alleged torture during detention under the late President Jomo Kenyatta and retired President Moi. Fundamental rights But the three-judge bench, in a judgment delivered on March 6, 2015, enhanced the Sh2.5 million he was awarded by High Court Judge Mumbi Ngugi on March 28, 2012. Appellate Judges John Mwera, Philomena Mwilu and Otieno-Odek had allowed lawyer Gitau Mwara to lodge the petition with the Supreme Court seeking to outlaw Koigi’s torture and degrading treatment. The bone of contention is whether Koigi’s constitutional rights were violated when he was held in police and prison custody under the Preservation of Public Order Act. He claims his fundamental rights and freedoms were violated during his unlawful incarceration without trial at Kamiti, Naivasha, Manyani and Shimo La Tewa maximum security prisons between August 9, 1975 and December 12, 1978 and from August 5, 1982 to December 12, 1984.