Irene Githinji and George Kebaso @PeopleDailyKe The online registration for Grade 3 learners for the Kenya Early Years Assessment (Keya) opened yesterday, amid reports of congestion that made it difficult for schools to enter  details of learners. No sooner had the Keya portal been opened than schools logged into the system, a situation that slowed down the exercise. The Kenya National Examinations Council (Knec) has provided instructions on the process of registration, which will run through to August 30. Knec acting chief executive Mercy Karogo said birth certificates are not required for enrolment of Grade 3  learners. She said as long as learners are captured in the National Education Management Information System (NEMIS) they are not required to produce any identification document when enrolling for assessment. “We wish to clarify that the birth certificate shall not bar enrolment of learners for the 2019 Keya. The column for schools to key in birth certificate numbers is not a mandatory field,” Karogo told journalists at the council’s NHC Building offices yesterday. Knec has developed assessment tools to be used by schools to assess competency levels among Grade 3 learners, who are currently undertaking the Competence-Based Curriculum (CBC). In a circular detailing how registration will be conducted, Karogo said the council developed a Competence-Based Assessment Framework for basic education guided by the Basic Education Curriculum Framework and the curriculum designs for Early Years of Education (EYE). “Knec has developed Keya portal for use in enrolling Grade 3 learners. The portal is using data from the National Education Management Information System (Nemis) to enable headteachers identify their learners,” said Karogo. Ready for listing A spot check in some of the schools in Nairobi revealed that as much as the schools are ready to register, congestion slowed the process on the first day of registration. Kasarani Group of Schools director, Irene Kamau said that other than congestion, some of the learners are still not registered on Nemis and do not have the Unique Personal Identification number. Separately, the Kenya Private Schools Association (KPSA) chief executive Peter Ndoro said they are ready for the registration, adding that the assessment will go a long way in understanding competence and progress of learners. He said private primary schools will meet with Knec officials on Thursday at Kabarak University,  which will be a platform to clarify issues of online registration process.