Upstart Kariobangi Sharks bamboozled English top-flight side Everton at Kasarani Stadium last evening to win the SportPesa Super Cup 4-3 on post-match penalties after both teams drew one-all in regular time. Much-maligned teenage goalkeeper Brian Bwire turned out to be Sharks’ hero when he saved two penalties and scored one during the shootout. Bwire dived to his right during Everton’s opening and closing penalty takes to thwart Joe Williams and Antonee Robinson. The match itself was one of two halves, the first belonging to Sharks before Everton’s nine young substitutes warmed up the 60,000-seater stadium with a late rally to claw back having conceded early. Everton experienced stars who started the game looked jaded from kick-off, almost disinterested as they took on the 2019 SportPesa Cup winners. With hotshots Theo Walcott, Oumar Niase and Ademola Lookman leading their lines backed by an equally talented midfield of Morgan Schneiderlin, Tom Davies and Andre Gomes, Everton’s effort at the start to the game was underwhelming. Sharks front men of Eric Kapaito, Duke Abuya and Harrison Mwendwa ran riot, troubling their visitors with dangerous runs. Lookman, the livelier of Everton players, exited the match after just 15 minutes when he pulled up injured and was replaced by Nathan Broadhead. The ominous Sharks goal finally arrived in the 25th minute when Abuya beat Everton’s high line, slotted the ball between Holgate’s feet and past goalkeeper Marteen Stekelenburg. Everton tried but failed to find a counter punch, restricted by a really inspired Sharks squad. They finally opened up the hosts defence, Walcott with a driving run to the byline before finding Callum Connolly in the box but the resultant shot flew just inches wide of Bwire’s post. In the second half, Sharks conceded a free kick at the edge of box when Patilla Omoto wrestled down Joe Williams. The young forward got up and drew Everton level with a clever strike under the wall and into the far corner of Bwire’s goal.