New York, Tuesday @PeopleSport11 Kawhi Leonard’s uncertain NBA free agency fate kept three teams in limbo Monday as players continued to make deals to shake the league landscape. Players and teams began agreeing to terms on new deals Sunday even though no contracts can be signed until next Saturday. Leonard, who led the Toronto Raptors to the NBA title last month, was expected to meet with the Los Angeles Lakers and Los Angeles Clippers plus the Raptors this week before making a decision on where to sign a new deal. The Raptors are trying to keep together their championship squad while the Clippers, in Leonard’s home town, have a similar young team that would offer him a starring role. The Lakers, who have cleared enough salary cap space, to make a top offer for the two-time NBA Finals Most Valuable Player, have a chance to form a super-team with LeBron James and Anthony Davis. Agreed to terms The Lakers were reportedly looking at D’Angelo Russell, who went to the Golden State Warriors for four years at $117 million (Sh11.7 billion) after trading Andre Iguodala to Memphis. Russell will partner Steph Curry in the Warriors’ backcourt until Klay Thompson, who agreed to terms Monday on a five-year deal worth $190 million (Sh19 billion) to stay with Golden State, returns from a torn knee ligament. Also reportedly waiting on Leonard’s decision is Toronto guard Danny Green, who is being wooed by Dallas but could figure into the plans of the Lakers and Clippers as well. Other free agents looking for deals include Golden State center DeMarcus Cousins and Lakers point guard Rajon Rondo. Meanwhile, Golden State Warriors co-chairman and chief executive Joe Lacob said Monday that as long as he runs the NBA club, consider departing star Kevin Durant’s (KD) number 35 jersey retired. The 30-year-old forward agreed to a free agent deal with the Brooklyn Nets on Sunday after winning two NBA titles in three years with the Warriors and Lacob feels retiring his jersey is the best way to thank him.     -AFP