Reuters Corruption and poor infrastructure could derail attempts by African states to tap an enlarged Sh340 trillion economy after launching a continental free-trade zone on Sunday. It is hoped that the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) – the largest since the creation of the World Trade Organisation in 1994 – will help unlock Africa’s long-stymied economic potential by boosting intra-regional trade, strengthening supply chains and spreading expertise. If successful, this will pool some 1.3 billion people ushering in a new era of development involving 55 nations. Economists warn that a combination of factors which include poor road and rail links, petty corruption, large areas of unrest and excessive border bureaucracy, have held back growth and integration. Eliminating tariffs This despite commitment from members to eliminate tariffs on most goods, which will increase trade in the region by 15 to 25 per cent in the medium term, but this would more than double if these other issues were dealt with, according to International Monetary Fund (IMF) estimates. The IMF in a May report described the free-trade zone as a potential “economic game changer” of the kind that has boosted growth in Europe and North America, but it added a note of caution. “Reducing tariffs alone is not sufficient,” it said. Currently, talk is rife that Kenya losses approximately Sh1 trillion to corruption every year, translating to Sh6 trillion for the period Jubilee has been in power, according to an analysis by the office of the Auditor General. Reuters reports that Africa already has an alphabet soup of competing and overlapping trade zones – East African Community (EAC), ECOWAS in the west, SADC in the south and Comesa in the east and south. But only the EAC, driven mainly by Kenya, has made significant progress towards a common market in goods and services. These regional economic communities (REC) will continue to trade among themselves as they do now. The role of AfCFTA is to liberalise trade among those member states that are not currently in the same REC, said Trudi Hartzenberg, director at Tralac, a South Africa-based trade law organisation. The zone’s potential clout received a boost on Tuesday when Nigeria, the largest economy in Africa, agreed to sign the agreement at the summit. Benin has also since agreed to join. Fifty-four of the continent’s 55 states have now signed up, but only about half of these have ratified. Conflicting motives One obstacle in negotiations will be the countries’ conflicting motives. For undiversified but relatively developed economies like Nigeria, which relies heavily on oil exports, the benefits of membership will likely be smaller than others, said John Ashbourne, senior emerging markets economist at Capital Economics. In contrast, South Africa’s manufacturers, who are among the most developed in Africa, could quickly expand outside their usual export markets and into West and North Africa, giving them an advantage over manufacturers from other countries, Ashbourne said. – Additional reporting by Fred Aminga.