Irene Githinji The Kenya Universities Staff Union (Kusu) yesterday called for urgent stakeholder engagement to confront challenges affecting institutions of higher learning instead of painting a grim picture of their current status. Kusu said it was worried that State universities have become subject of public discourse especially with regards to their alleged financial upheavals and mismanagement. Kusu secretary general Dr Charles Mukhwaya appealed to Education Cabinet secretary Prof George Magoha to convene an urgent stakeholder meeting that would  come up with a way forward to inform a clear policy formulation for the institutions. Kusu also dismissed the move to merge universities saying  it does not address the challenges at hand. Mukhwaya said the union is opposed to Executive decrees, which have unforeseen repercussions even as he insisted that any proposals or changes in institutions of higher learning should be within the realms of the law. While admitting that certain aspects of university education  may have fallen, Mukhwaya blamed it on government for failing to provide adequate finances to run public institutions. “It is truism that public universities today are facing various challenges. However, pursuant to provisions of the Constitution and relevant legal framework, the union occupies the position that there is urgent need for more focused stakeholder participation towards identifying the real challenges with a view to proffering both short-and long-term remedies moving forward,” Mukhwaya  said in a press conference,  in  Nairobi. Also of concern to the union is allegations that universities have a bloated workforce, with Mukhwaya saying  the government has not undertaken a head-count recently. Reform institutions “There has been expansion of university education as envisaged. We are opposed to some public pronouncements which are causing anxiety and showing a grim picture of our institutions of higher learning,” he said. Mid last month, Magoha met with public universities Vice Chancellors and gave them two weeks to come up with own proposals towards reforming the institutions. The union rejected proposals to employ workers on contract terms saying employment terms is a negotiable item in the Collective Bargaining Agreement, which provides that an employee be either hired on contract or permanent and pensionable terms.