A comparison of Kenya’s performance at the ongoing Africa Cup of Nations in Cairo, Egypt and her previous last appearance 15 years ago reveals sad but bitterly true statistics that the national football team is regressing. It is alarming that while neighbouring countries and Africa in general is making steps to bridge a previously yawning gap with Europe and South America, Kenya is on a decline. Just before the 2004 event, Stars bustling with raw talent and passion for the game with a paltry Sh2 million budget, the team coached by local coach Jacob ‘Ghost’ Mulee topped a qualifying group comprising Togo, Cape Verde and Mauritania to reach the 16-team Africa Cup of Nations finals in Tunisia. The country was ranked 74th then. And rightly pulled her weight to finish top of her group since only group winners qualified under the former lean format. At the finals, Harambee Stars was pooled alongside Mali to whom they lost 1-3, Senegal (lost 3-0) and Bukina Faso (won 3-0), finishing third in the group with a goal difference of negative two. The team reached a milestone of winning just her first match after failing in four past attempts. Fast forward 2019 and backed by bulging government budget of Sh240 million, Harambee Stars needed luck to qualify after the suspension of Sierra Leone who had beaten Stars in Free Twon during the first qualifier. Pooled alongside Ghana, Ethiopia and Sierra Leone, Kenya finished second in an expanded 24-team format to reach just her sixth finals. Kenya lost twice (2-0 to Algeria and 3-0 to Senegal) earning her second ever victory (3-2 over Tanzania) to finish third in Group C and last among other third-placed teams in the tournament. Stars greatest undoing was a porous back line that leaked seven goals against three scored. Kenya’s performance in 2004 is indeed better in terms of statistics if compared with the Cairo outing. Stars a goal less and conceded one more than the six soaked in Tunisia. The talent pool in 2004 was narrower than it is now but the biggest impediment for Kenya remains feeble mentally. On the brighter side, Kenya fielded the fifth youngest team in the Egypt finals. The experience gained by current crop of players can push Harambee Stars to greater pedestal especially with young players making inroads to Europe where better facilities, coaching, nutrition and measured growth exists. With the likes of Eric Ouma, Joseph Okumu, John Avire, Bernard Ochieng, Ovella Ochieng and Masud Juma harbouring great potential, the Stars can only dream of better. The local scene has also undergone some positive changes as Football Kenya Federation strives to align the game with modern dictates. Mass training of coaches, qualifications requirements for coaching in various levels of the game and implementation of the CAF Club Licensing requirements, the Kenyan game is headed for an exponential growth phase.