You might just think you’re accessorising your favourite outfit, but the pieces and placement of the ornament you select can actually let others in on certain aspects of your personality. As Chebet Korir writes, your pick bling says a lot about you 1.Pinky ring This applies mostly to men as it is often the first choice for a man who wants to wear a ‘statement’ ring. Wearing a ring on your pink finger isolates it from your body a bit, making it more of an eye-popping statement. As a result, this type of rings tends to be among the busiest or flashiest of designs. More so, a pinky ring worn on the active hand is associated with intellect, along with an excellent ability to express yourself. Worn on the passive hand, it shows intuition and great listening skills. 2. Bling-bling Whether it’s a big, bright or a shiny piece of jewellery, there are several ways it can speak volumes. One, you are a bold and strong person and doesn’t mind being the centre of attention. You have plenty of confidence and you are not afraid to get out and enjoy the world around you. 3. Body piercing Getting a piercing that’s different than the normal says a lot about who you are. People with noses, tongues, eyebrows and other parts that are pierced are sometimes rebelling against social norms, even if it’s unconscious. Other people choose body piercings as a way to draw attention or let others know that they do not care what people think about them. Of course, there are also people who get them because they simply like the way it looks. That says something about your personality too. 4. African pieces We often get them from Maasai market or just from random sellers in the streets who sometimes engrave your name on a piece of wood or beads. Well, people who like this kind of jewellery are often appreciative of a well-crafted object. Their taste is sometimes obscure, but interesting in nature. 5. Fine jewellery If you go for fine jewellery, you are probably comfortable in yourself with a well-defined personal style. You are grounded, focused and pay attention to detail. You’d rather have a few well-chosen pieces that complement any outfit and that will last a lifetime. 6. Colour coordinated Do you like to wear jewellery in matched sets? If so, this could mean you are organised and responsible. People who wear sets of jewellery, like the earrings, rings and cur diamond pendants are often kind and generous host. People may also seek you out of advice, as you are known for being a great talk-to. 7. Pearls Women who wear pearls are intrinsically elegant and have a classic style. If this is you, you probably prefer simpler and understated styles. Wearing pearls often shows that you have traditional values and hold your family close. You have a calm demeanour and a certain poise that makes other people feel reassured around you. 8. Big pieces Sometimes, you just need one piece to make an impact, but that piece should be a big one. People who wear big statement pieces tend to have a lot of confidence. Rocking a standout necklace or ring shows that you aren’t afraid to turn heads; you like being the centre of attention and don’t shy away from being on the spotlight. 9. Brand jewellery If you love name-brand jewellery from luxury manufacturers, then it is likely that you are a person who pays great attention to detail in all aspects of life. You never settle for second best and you work hard to reach your goals. You reward yourself for your efforts and people admire your high self-esteem as well as your appreciation for the finer things in life. You love to make a statement and you are probably an excellent host or hostess. 10. Antique If you have an appreciation for antique jewellery, it could be that you are nostalgic or that you are a trendsetter. In any case, you like jewellery that stands out and you love the fact that your jewellery comes with a story. You may not care much about brand names; in fact, you may prefer unique vintage items that are one of a kind. If antique jewellery is your favourite, you are probably an interesting person and an exceptional conversationalist.