Former Everton midfielder Steve Pienaar has identified Kariobangi Sharks goal poacher Duke Abuya as the danger man ahead of Sunday’s friendly match between the two sides. Everton will take on Sharks at Kasarani Stadium and the 37-year-old former South Africa captain says the attacking midfielder has the ability to cause havoc in the Tofees’ defence. Pienaar watched as the former Mathare United star played a pivotal role for Sharks as they reached the final of the 2019 SportPesa Cup in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania in January, scoring a brace in their 3-2 win over Yanga FC to advance to the semi-finals, before leading them into the final and eventually winning the trophy. “In the finals of the Super Cup where Kariobangi played Bandari, Abuya was on fire and I think the Everton defenders ought to be very careful with him in this friendly match,” said Pienaar. He added: “For the Kariobangi players, this match will be a unique platform to showcase their talent and ability to the world and get an opportunity to play in Europe. But my advice to the players whom I know are eagerly anticipating this clash is to come to the field, take it easy and play simple and attractive football rather than trying too hard to impress.” Government support Another Everton legend Leon Osman, who made 433 appearances for the team, scoring 57 goals, urged the government in partnership with other football stakeholders to set up proper structures that will help tap and nurture talent. “Football is a sport that needs to be nurtured early and not when a player is at an advanced age. The government should ensure that academies are set up across the country for the young players to be discovered early. In Europe, this is the norm. For instance, I joined an academy at the age of eight and I can say it has helped me in my career,” said Osman. Among Everton’s top players expected to land in Kenya tomorrow morning is England’s first choice custodian Jordan Pickford, Theo Walcott, Leighton Baines, Morgan Schneiderlin, Tom Davies and Ademola Lookman. Meanwhile, SportPesa head of security Matthews Waria has assured the public of tight security before, during and after the match, saying there will be police officers at different stations to man the ground on the day.