A day after Deputy President William Ruto announced ruling Jubilee Party will hold a national meeting, fresh cracks have emerged pitting Tanga Tanga and Kieleweke factions over the purpose of the meeting. Yesterday, Tanga Tanga MPs welcomed the proposed meeting, saying it was long overdue, but their Kieleweke counterparts dismissed the calls, terming it unnecessary at the moment. Speaking at the weekend at a church service in Embakasi East, Ruto hinted that Jubilee Party would convene a meeting to iron out party differences. The planned meeting comes in the wake of simmering differences and in-fighting in the party that threatens to sink the ship after months of infighting that has seen two camps tear into each other in public. Contacted, Majority Whip Benjamin Washiali welcomed the idea to hold a meeting, saying it will help address the differences that have hit the outfit. “This is well thought of idea, the party needs to call its members and address the differences that have threatened to tear it apart. In fact, it is long overdue,” said Washiali. But Kiambaa MP Paul Koinange, a member of the Kieleweke team, dismissed the calls, saying it was not necessary at the moment because the party is so divided that members may not come up with anything concrete. “We are not in the right time considering the bickering within the party. We need to allow things to cool down before calling for any meeting,” said Koinange. He asked those proposing meeting to use their energies in serving the electorate. And political analyst Peter Kagwanja, while dismissing calls for a party meeting, said the only person mandated to convene such meeting as per its constitution demands is the Secretary General. “The DP is misguided on this,” said Kagwanja. “Ruto is not keen with Jubilee matters, we are aware that some of his allies have already formed three political parties as his safe haven.” But Murang’a Senator Irungu Kang’ata, who is not openly allied to either side of the factions, said he welcomes a party meeting called by either President Uhuru Kenyatta or his deputy. The Tanga Tanga team has been having issues with party secretary general Raphael Tuju whom they accuse of sabotaging Ruto’s 2022 chances of succeeding Uhuru. This comes as another Jubilee faction met last Tuesday to strategise the removal of Tuju.  Tuju’s problems with the Ruto-allied Tanga Tanga team came to the fore when he was caught up in a leaked audio conversation with former Limuru MP George Nyanja to sabotage Ruto. The recent assassination claims targeting the DP have escalated the wars in Jubilee after Ruto accused some Cabinet secretaries of plotting his assassination. But CSs Peter Munya, Sicily Kariuki, James Macharia and Joe Mucheru have since dismissed the allegations as hot-air.