Anthony Mwangi and Murimi Mutiga @PeopleDailyKe Envoys of four country’s yesterday rejected plans to privatise the second container terminal (CT2) through single sourcing to the Kenya National Shipping Line  (KNSL). In Parliament, a memorandum by President Uhuru Kenyatta rejecting a bid to lock Italian firm Mediterranean Shipping Company (MSC) out of KNSL passed despite stiff opposition by Coast MPs. The envoys of the United Kingdom, Denmark, France and Japan  opposed the takeover of the terminal by KNLS because MSC owns 33 per cent stake in the company. In a protest letter to Foreign Affairs Cabinet Secretary Monica Juma, Mette Knudsen (Denmark), Aline Kuster (France), Yoshihiro Katayama (Japan) and Nick Hailey (UK) said this would give MSC an advantage over other lines using the port of Mombasa. Conflict of interest “Entrusting the operation of CT2 to KNSL without guarantee of a fair treatment of the different maritime operators active on the port of Mombasa, could lead to a potential conflict of interest that could affect efficient and transparent management of the Port,”said the ambassadors. The letter said the KNSL-MSC partnership did not guarantee other shipping lines fair treatment. “For the terminal to operate efficiently and deliver for the wider economy, it is important that all operators are treated equally,” they said. Single operator “We deeply regret lack of transparency of the ongoing process, aiming at granting operation of CT2 to a single operator without any competition. This terminal is the most important modern facility of the port of Mombasa, the management of which international operators would appreciate to be invited to compete for through an open and transparent bidding process where they could demonstrate their ability as such,”said the letter. They said the terminal was to be operated by a private operator, through a competitive bidding process, that was launched by the end of 2014 and attracted a large number of international recognised operators only to be cancelled in early 2016 by the  government before the end of the process. “However, the structure of the shareholding of KNSL could raise a difficulty with regard to this ambition, raising a legitimate doubt about the impartiality with which would be ensured the operation of CT2, which should be at the benefit of the whole maritime sector and not only of a single one,” the envoys said. State-owned Uhuru had declined to assent to the Statute Law (Miscellaneous Amendments) Bill after MPs introduced changes to have the KNSL owned exclusively by the State. Coast lawmakers led by Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir had successfully lobbied their colleagues to shoot down the proposal allowing the KNSL to run the second terminal unless the government fully owns it. The legislators have vowed to go to court to protest Uhuru’s action which they say would deny the Coast region an economic lifeline. “What the President has done is to open doors for any entity to come with a ship and start operating. What we wanted was the shipping business to be wholly owned by the State,” Nassir said. Uhuru in his memorandum asked MPs to reverse their decision on grounds that “this restriction will disadvantage the Kenya National Shipping Line whose majority shareholding is held by the government, through the Kenya Ports Authority”. Kenya Ports Authority owns 53 per cent stake in KNSL, MSC 33 per cent, while Unimar and DEG have seven per cent each. The President expressed reservation with the limitation on “whole ownership” and wanted it amended to read, “ownership.” He was concerned that the revival of the KNLS would be  hampered and opportunities to create employment lost. He said the changes would assist the KNLS in collaborating with other partners “as is the international practice, to enhance its competitiveness in the regional and global shipping markets”.