DPPS @PeopleDaily President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto yesterday urged leaders to focus on activities that promote peace among communities across the country. They said it is only through peace and reconciliation that Kenyans can live harmoniously irrespective of political affiliations. Ruto made the remarks during the burial of former Nominated MCA Rose Kisama in Ngong, Kajiado county, where he delivered a condolence message on behalf of the Uhuru. The President described Kisama, who served in the Uasin Gishu County Assembly from 2013 to 2017, as a “true patriot of peace and reconciliation. Kisama also worked as a peace and reconciliation ambassador in Uasin Gishu after the 2007/08 post-election violence. “She also invested her time and resources in helping the less fortunate members of the society,” said the President. On his part,  Ruto urged leaders to emulate Kisama and preach peace instead of sowing seeds of discord. “As leaders, we should dedicate our energies in preaching peace and unity of all Kenyans. I want to pledge the commitment of President Uhuru Kenyatta and myself to the unity of this country.” The DP reiterated that Jubilee Party’s vision is to unite the country, not win elections. “We resolved to eliminate the politics of hatred and tribalism and ensure Kenya is peaceful and stable. That is still our commitment,” said Ruto. Peace ambassador He assured that the country would never tread the violence path again as long as he and Uhru were at the helm. Speakers praised the role played by the late Kisama in the search for peace in the Rift Valley when it was rocked by ethnic suspicions. “The late Kisama was an ambassador of peace in extra ordinary ways as witnessed after the post election violence. She was always thinking about church, orphans and projects that changed the lives of Kenyans,” said Ruto. Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago and his Nyandarua counterpart Francis Kimemia challenged leaders to preach peace and focus on development, saying only then would the devolved country achieve desired growth. Other leaders present included Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka, Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu and deputy governors Evelyn Aruasa (Narok) and Daniel Chemno (Uasin Gishu). Others were MPs George Sunkuya (Kajiado West), Oscar Sudi (Kapseret), Caleb Kositany (Soy), Naomi Shaban (Taveta), Moses Kuria (Gatundu South), Janet Sitienei (Turbo), Ken Aramat (Narok West), Sabina Chege (Woman Rep, Murang’a), Janet Teiya (Woman Rep, Kajiado) and John Mwirigi (Igembe South). Governor Waititu asked Kenyans not to buy into propaganda aimed at tarnishing names of leaders. MPs Kuria and Sudi called for peaceful co-existence among different communities across the country.