Kinyuru Munuhe @kinyurumunuhe Former Isukha Central MCA Richard Muchesia on Tuesday night shot dead his wife before turning the gun on himself. The 42-year-old is said to have turned against Florence Okwach, 32, a nurse, at their Ong’ata Rongai home in Kajiado county. Police sources say Muchesia, a licenced gun holder, might have differed with his wife before fatally shooting her. Two of their children escaped death after they locked themselves up in a separate room during the scuffle. The couple, neighbours claimed, are said to have had a troubled marriage over allegations of infidelity. Other police sources said Muchesia, may have been battling with a mental problem. Earlier, he had run into trouble with detectives after it was reported that he had been sexually abusing a female relative at gun point. Police had rescued the relative and taken her to a children’s home but did not disarm him. Kajiado North sub-county commander Joseph Mwika  said police have since recovered the murder weapon. “Police have since visited the scene of crime and the two bodies have been taken to City Mortuary. The former MCA was a licenced gun holder. We have recovered the murder weapon and investigations have been launched into exactly what happened,” Mwika said. According to investigators, the reconstruction of the scene did not manifest any struggle between the two. “The scene did not indicate a  possible violent struggle, ” a  senior detective said. Hushed tones Neighbours who spoke to the media on condition of anonymity said they heard gunshots at around 4am and notified the caretaker. “The couple has been living here since 2013. Although there have been rumours of domestic quarrels, we did not think it would get this bad. The couple was social and always happy, ” said a neighbour. Yesterday, close relatives who gathered at the couple’s home kept the media at bay but they  could be seen talking in hushed tones. Muchesia unsuccessfully vied for the Shinyalu parliamentary seat in the 2017. Cases of crimes of passion are on the rise in recent days. On Tuesday, 32-year-old Joyce Wanjiru hacked to death her husband David Gitau before she strangled her two children aged seven years and two. She later committed suicide by hanging herself at their home in Thome Estate in Nairobi. Early this year, businessman Joseph Kori and his girlfriend  Judy Wangui were charged with the murder of Kori’s wife, Mary Wambui Kamangara. Although Kori was later released for lack of evidence, Wangui is still in custody awaiting the hearing and determination of the case.