Bernice Mbugua @BerniceMuhindi State House digital communications director Dennis Itumbi was yesterday detained for five more days to allow police to conclude investigations into a letter alleging a plot to assassinate Deputy President William Ruto. Senior resident magistrate Zainab Abdul directed that he be detained at Muthaiga Police Station. Police had, however, wanted him detained at Kamukunji. Itumbi said he has a video of the meeting at La Mada Hotel he wanted to be played in court. “I would want to play the said video. It would prove a member who works for my bosses indeed threatened the life of the Deputy President,” he told the court. He said he would want the video played in camera. “I am being accused of refusing to cooperate because they want me to admit that the alleged document came from me,” he said. Itumbi was arrested on Wednesday and arraigned yesterday, with the prosecution seeking 14 days to detain him as police conclude investigations. The magistrate, however, gave them five days saying investigations had been ongoing since the discovery of the letter on June 20. “The investigations must be at an advanced stage given that the respondent’s phone is being analysed forensically. Fourteen days will be a very long time to hold the suspect,” she ruled. The magistrate noted that issues involving Itumbi’s arrest and arraignment were weighty and therefore found the application by DPP for custodial order merited. “This court has a responsibility to strike a balance between the rights of the respondent and the right to have the investigations proceed in a conducive environment free from any interference. I believe a proper basis has been laid down to enable the grant of a custodial order for the investigations to be completed,” she ruled. Senior prosecution counsel Festus Njue had argued that intelligence indicated Itumbi and his associates participated in manufacturing the purported letter. “The letter was clearly meant to cause public disorder, lawlessness and cause tribal disharmony within the country,” she said. The court heard that on July 2, a person identified only as Samuel was arrested and two mobile phones recovered. A WhatsApp group, styled Tangatanga Movement, was found in the said phone. Forensic examination “Pursuant to the perusal of the said WhatsApp group, the purported letter allegedly emanating from a Cabinet secretary was recovered having been posted by the respondent,” the prosecution counsel said. The court heard that at the time of Itumbi’s arrest, a mobile phone was seized and is yet to be forensically examined. “The team of investigators are yet to obtain subscriber details, line history, IMEI history, text messages and call data records in relation to phone numbers that the respondent has been using in communicating,” stated Njue. Itumbi’s lawyer Katwa Kigen opposed the application, arguing that his arrest was just for drama as the WhatsApp group had 256 members who were not arrested. “The WhatsApp group includes governors, senators and MPs who are influential, yet he is a mere public servant. He is not in a position to interfere with or influence these influential members,” said Kigen. He told the court that Itumbi was prepared to have the phone remain in the hands of the investigators for up to 14 days and would comply with the court’s directions. The lawyer noted that no statement had been recorded from the CS’s allegedly mentioned in the letter. In a further replying affidavit, Itumbi said he feared for his life. “Owing to the said material I have and which the investigators know I have and which they disparately want to avoid, they want me confined at Kamukunji Police Station where hardcore criminals are kept,” he argued in the documents. The case will be mentioned on July 10. 