Paul Ndung’u @PeopleDailyKe Education Cabinet secretary Prof George Magoha has directed management of Nairobi School and Sawagongo High School to table a report in his office by next week explaining why students were battered. Addressing the press at Nanyuki Primary School yesterday, Magoha said the report should indicate who did it and what action has been taken. “We do not want to argue, I know that there is a team already formed to investigate the issue but on the parallel side I would want to know quickly from the people we have entrusted with those children’s lives, what is going on there,” said the CS. Hail progress He said school principals have a duty to take care of students, adding that nobody is allowed to beat learners. Magoha declared that if prefects beat learners in school then the habit must stop immediately. The CS, who was inspecting  the implementation of Competency-Based Curriculum (CBC), toured DEB and Nanyuki primary schools in Laikipia county where he hailed the progress. “At DEB we found the pupils using the cloud to download the content of CBC and they were doing it by themselves. The CBC is rolling out very well,” he said. Magoha said there will be a major stakeholders’ conference on August 16 to discuss the curriculum at KICC and extended an invitation to anyone who want their views hear. Undergo surgery He also said there will be four pre-conferences before then starting from July 24 to 29. Education officials on Tuesday launched investigations into the alleged bullying after it emerged that a Nairobi School Form Two student was to undergo surgery following an assault by prefects. The public raised concern after complaints from a parent who claimed  her son, was beaten by prefects and sustained injuries that forced him to withdraw from school. Her displeasure with the alleged abuse was captured in a WhatsApp chat with fellow parents and was later shared  on social media. A team of four officers from the Teachers Service Commission, six from the Nairobi regional education office and Caspal Maina, the school principal are investigating  bullying at the institution which is said to be widespread.