Lewis Njoka @LewisNjoka The Capital Markets Authority (CMA) yesterday penalised three stockbrokers found culpable of insider trading on a Sh36 billion KenolKobil takeover bid last year. Insider trading are illegal transactions on the stock exchange to the advantage of a few who have access to confidential information. This development unveils the sensitive nature of such information and the resultant impact on people privy to such details. The market regulator says Andre DeSimone, Aly Khan Satchu and Kunal Kamlesh Somchand Bid used price sensitive material and non-public information to deal Sh59 million KenolKobil shares a week before the takeover announcement was made public on October 24, 2018 contrary to the Capital Markets Act. Stockbroking agents A committee set up by CMA found that DeSimone disclosed price sensitive material on the sale of 24.99 per cent Wells Petroleum shareholding in KenolKobil to RubisEnergie SAS (Rubis) and the impending takeover of KenolKobil Plc by Rubis to the two identified stockbroking agents,” the statement read in part. The two stock brokers, Satchu and Bid, later used the information to advise and buy 59 million KenolKobil shares on behalf of their clients. Satchu and Bid are stockbroking agents of Kestrel Capital East Africa Ltd while DeSimone is the former chief executive and executive director Kestrel Capital EA Ltd. The eight-member ad hoc committee constituted to hear the matter imposed a Sh2.5 million penalty on DeSimone and disqualified him from holding office as a key officer of a public listed company or in any other capacity in an institution approved by CMA, for one year. Satchu was ordered to give up Sh4.7 million he received as commission from the trades conducted based on insider information. Additionally, the committee disqualified him from holding office as a key officer of a public listed company, or in any other capacity in a CMA approved institution, for a period of three years. Cash penalty The committee ordered Bid to give up Sh23.4 million, money earned from the trading accounts that purchased 2.9 million shares through Kestrel Capital and AIB Capital. Bid Securities surrendered to the committee the Sh333,747 it received from Kestrel Capital while Bid Management Consultancy Ltd surrendered the Sh14,569.5 it received from AIB Capital Ltd as commissions from the respective trades conducted on the basis of insider information. Since most of the queried transactions were dealt through Kestrel Capital, the company voluntarily surrendered Sh9.9 million commissions earned on the transactions executed through Bid and Satchu. Kestrel surrendered the money voluntarily but without admitting or denying liability after entering a no contest settlement agreement, hence,closing insider trading investigations in respect to Kestrel. CMA issued the penalties following an inquiry it undertook following the suspicion of possible insider trading on the KenolKobil counter in the period prior to October 24, 2018.