Mercy Mwai and Irene Githinji @PeopleDailyKe The government is finding itself in a Catch-22 situation over the proposed importation of maize to forestall a possible food crisis, People Daily has established. At a Cabinet committee meeting yesterday, ministers agreed that although maize imports normally open floodgates for corruption, the country must address the possibility of a food crisis by September if it did not import maize. “Cabinet asked for more information on the amount of Grade One maize (for human consumption) available, what local farmers may be holding in their stores and a projection of what might happen when the expected harvest comes in September,” a source familiar with the deliberations said. As soon as this information is available, the government will make a decision by end of the week, including a long-term view of the situation in drought-hit areas. “It’s a tough situation to balance… farmers say there’s maize, but millers are paying Sh3,500 for a 90-kilogramme bag of the commodity and the price is rising,” the official said, adding that significant quantities of maize were already coming in from Tanzania. Comesa region The source, however, said the government will not allow “wholesale importation” of the commodity but will most likely restrict it to the East African Community and Comesa region. “The aim will be largely to stabilise prices and meet the anticipated September deficit.” He noted that the price of a two-kilogramme packet of maize flour was currently touching Sh130, and could reach Sh150 by September if nothing is done. The official urged farmers currently holding maize to offer it for sale, adding that all of them will be given a chance to sell the commodity. State House Spokesperson Kanze Dena said the government was alive to the unease the maize situation had caused and said a comprehensive statement on the issue will be issued. “We know that the issue has caused a lot of anxiety but it is being dealt with and direction will soon be given,” Dena said at a State House briefing yesterday. The officials spoke as a parliamentary committee told Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri not to import any maize. The committee led by Adan Haji (Mandera West) said there is no crisis as the maize being held by farmers, millers, traders and the National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB) is enough to sustain the country until the September harvest. What crisis? According the committee, farmers, traders and millers are holding about 1.5 million bags of maize while NCPB is holding 2.1 million bags which was adequate for the country. Addressing a news conference at Parliament Buildings yesterday, the MPs claimed that maize importation would allow cartels and unscrupulous business people to bring in the commodity at the expense of farmers. They claimed they were aware of a vessel loaded with maize hovering in the high seas off Mexico waiting to be directed to any country that may be interested in the commodity. “There is no crisis. We are calling upon the Cabinet secretary to drop the push to have the proposed importation of maize because the country has enough,” he said. The committee said their decision follows due diligence, including field visits to farmers and the Strategic Grain Reserve, which had established that there was enough maize in store. According to the committee, if the government was interested in importing maize, it should have done that in April, May and June and not now when farmers are about to harvest. “We have invited the CS to come tomorrow (today) to shed light on this matter. We have made it clear that we will tell him not to import any maize,” Haji who is Mandera South MP said. In particular the MP told the government to support NCPB clean up the silos in readiness for buying maize from farmers once they harvest. He clarified that there is no point for millers to increase the price of maize flour as the Cabinet is expected to give NCPB a go-ahead to sell 1.7 million bags to them. “There is about 1.5 million bags of maize held by millers and farmers and we also know that NCPB has maize which we expect to be released to the millers,” he said. The committee vice chair Emanuel Wangwe (Navakholo) claimed that allowing importation of maize will give cartels and rogue business people an opportunity to take advantage of farmers and import excessive maize. Contaminated “You can imagine allowing maize that has been in the high seas for the last two months. This contaminated maize will be full of aflatoxin,” he said. Busia County MP Florence Mutua said they intend to make it clear to Kiunjuri their  rejection of any move by the government to import maize, as the country is self-sufficient. She questioned the rationale of the government importing maize at Sh5, 000 per bag yet   buying the commodity at Sh2000 from farmers. Last week, Kiunjuri clashed with Strategic Food Reserve Board chairman Noah Wekesa over maize imports. While Kiunjuri said the country had a deficit of 19 million bags to be plugged through imports, Wekesa claimed only two million bags were required.