Irene Githinji @gitshee The government is yet to decide whether there will be a summative evaluation at the end of Grade Six, which marks the end of free and compulsory education. This is one of the decisions the 17-member taskforce gazetted by Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha is expected to widely consult in their sittings starting tomorrow. Questions are also emerging on whether Grade Six graduates will be allowed to specialise at senior secondary level. The learning areas in the Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) pathways include applied and pure sciences, technical and engineering as well as Career Technology Studies (CTS). The Ministry said the first 12 years of learning are compulsory then at Grades Seven to Nine, there will be an expanded curriculum to help them understand their capacities and pathways to different aspects. The CS directed that the taskforce submit a comprehensive report in April next year guiding the way forward towards implementing the Competence Based Curriculum (CBC). The CS spoke even as he urged Parliament to pass the Sessional Paper on curriculum reforms before the national education conference scheduled for August 16. “The Sessional Paper has to be ready before the conference to avoid some detractors from using the issue to gain mirage, that CBC is not anchored in the law. Put it as a priority so that we do not have anything pending,” the CS urged Parliament. In a sitting with the National Assembly Education Committee in Naivasha yesterday, the MPs sought the modalities in which the assessment would be undertaken saying there is need for an evaluation to establish learners’ competencies. “The taskforce has until April to deliberate on various issues in the implementation of CBC, the taskforce will give options,” the CS said. The taskforce will undertake a broad stakeholder engagement and identify international best practices with a view to preparing the country for the transition to the new education system. Also in the meeting was Kenya National Examinations Council (Knec) acting chief executive Dr Mercy Karogo, who explained the assessment concept. Karogo said the plan is to have Knec undertake monitoring of learner achievement of competencies at Early Year Education (EYE) at Grade 3, Middle Years Education at Grade 6, Lower Secondary Education at Grade 9 and Senior Secondary Education at Grade 12. Karogo said the purpose of monitoring learner achievements at Grade 3 is to inform and improve the quality of education, support long term learning of the learner and assess them as they acquire knowledge and skills in a given situation.