Lewis Njoka @LewisNjoka Financial experts are rooting for digital lenders to be regulated by Central Bank of Kenya (CBK), wading into a debate that has seen the watchdog and lenders take divergent positions. They said the fast-growing and largely unregulated financial technology (fintech) sector should first be placed under CBK’s oversight followed by a gradual rollout of self-regulation in areas where the lenders demonstrate ability to control themselves effectively. “Moving from no regulation to self-regulation would be a mistake as the lenders are likely to come up with regulations which suit only them,” Sterling Capital Executive Director, John Kirimi said. “They borrow from commercial banks for onward lending, hence, would affect the economy significantly if they failed to repay the loans,” he added. Kirimi dismissed the argument by the lenders that they should not be placed under CBK since they were not deposit-taking institutions, saying their activities touched on the monetary policies of the country, hence, could be placed under the regulator. Patrick Mumu, an analyst at Genghis Capital supported the stand by Kirimi, saying bringing in CBK would ensure a fair playing field for both standalone lending apps and those affiliated to banks. He said placing the lenders under CBK’s regulation will seal a loophole banks are using to circumvent the rate caps by reporting revenues they make from their mobile lending arms as facilitation fee instead of interest, which enables them to charge higher than allowed by the Banking Act. Mumu noted that placing mobile lenders under CBK will ensure proper protection of customer data and ensure the financial wellbeing of the financial institutions and the economy. He said that the micro-lenders risked being pushed out of the market by banks. “It would be more efficient for the banks to do the digital lending. Mobile lenders are currently banking on information asymmetry, where customers are unable to compare prices, to survive. Banks, who have a competitive advantage, are quickly moving into that lending space and may soon phase them out,” said Mumu. Lobby group Digital Lenders Association of Kenya (DLAK), a lobby group representing 12 lenders, recently announced plans for self-regulation, saying it was the best way to weed out rogue lenders from their midst without crippling the industry. Already, DLAK, has adopted a code of conduct to guide its members as part of its self-regulation efforts. It fears that external regulation could stifle the sector. Robert Masinde, DLAK Chairman said there is a need to review lending charges, protect customer data and weed out rogue lenders in the industry and this can best be done by the lenders themselves. “Once, we have such a mechanism in place, those among us who are exploiting customers will automatically find themselves out of business,” he said. Under the new rules and regulations set for DLAK members, consumers will have access to clear pricing, empowering them to make informed decisions on the loan product that best meets their needs. This will include details such as the principal, interest, fees, tenure and other items into separate line items have visual representations such as calendars to indicate due dates for payment, when past due periods begin and other key timelines. Consumers will also enjoy data privacy where digital lenders collect personal data only relevant to the services provided, and for which the borrower has given express permission. The CBK Governor, Patrick Njoroge, is on record saying that the digital lending sector should be regulated properly like other financial institutions, a statement understood by many observers to mean he wanted it placed under institution’s watch. “There has to be a proper regulation, where similar products are regulated in a similar way so long as you are lending to customers or receiving deposits. If you have a banking function, it is not just about the name; you have to be regulated in the same way or it will lead to arbitrage,” he said in May. “Some of these lending apps have been displaying shylock-like behaviour while hiding behind nice-looking applications,” Njoroge added. In May, Ministry of Finance published a draft bill on financial regulation that covers even digital lenders. Predatory lending Earlier, the National Assembly’s Information, Communications and Technology (ICT) committee had directed the Central Bank to publish regulations that would see digital lenders become subject to the 2016 rate caps and end predatory lending in the sector. Currently, mobile apps offer loans for as high as 180 per cent per annum. Mobile lenders are difficult to  regulate as they cut across the financial services sector regulated by Central Bank of Kenya and the telecommunications sector regulated by the Communications Authority of Kenya.