Kenyan champions Gor Mahia emasculated AS Ports of Djibouti 2-0 in Rubavu, Rwanda to seize control of Group D and book a place in the last eight of Kagame Cup yesterday. K’Ogalo left it late before finding their way past a stubborn AS Ports who matched Gor toe-to-toe in the opening half. Coach Hssan Oktay made twin substitutions in the second half that changed the game drastically. After a barren opening hour in which Gor enjoyed possession with little penetration, substitute Boniface Omondi breached their opponents’ goal line six minutes after his introduction to settle nerves. Omondi profited from a loose ball in AS Ports’ six-yard box after youth team graduate Erick Ombija won an aerial duel from Dennis Oalo’s cross. Lurking in the goalmouth, the diminutive Omondi instinctively pounced on the ball and steered it into the net. The goal deflated AS Ports and K’Ogalo, with Kenneth Muguna running the show after coming on for Hashim Sempala, exercised a long moment of possession, leaving their opponents to chase shadows. Just when the game seemed destined for a slim 1-0 score line, Oalo struck K’Ogalo’s second after a tough physical duel for the ball in AS Ports’ 18-yard area. The former Nairobi Stima marksman stayed on his feet when tumbling was an easy option from a coming together with Ports defender in the 92nd minute. In the frantic physical duel, he found the ball in his sight and with a poacher’s instinct, directed a shot towards goal for Gor’s second. It was not pretty but the man who scored 25 goals for Nairobi Stima in the second tier National Super League last season opened his account for K’Ogalo. The victory steered Gor to the quarter-finals with one match pending against Zanzibari outfit KMKM. In Group B, the second of Kenya’s representatives in 2019 CECAFA Club Championships Bandari must overcome title holders Azam of Tanzania for a chance to make the knockout stage. Bandari are third in the group on two points following two draws with Ugandan champions KCCA and Mukura Victory Sports of Rwanda. With the group wide open for any of the four members to qualify, Bandari will face Azam in Huye today, hoping to get a result that will be good enough for a last eight appearance on their debut.