By ZADOCK ANGIRA The 4,293 gun owners who failed to turn up for mandatory vetting and have since not surrendered their firearms are now regarded as armed and dangerous criminals, the government announced on Friday. Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai directed Regional Commanders to immediately launch an operation to recover the firearms and arrest the owners. “An operation to apprehend, disarm and charge the culprits will immediately begin. The list of the 4,293 has already been submitted to all the regional commanders,” Mutyambai said, adding that the seven-day respite they were granted to surrender their guns to the government lapsed yesterday. Mutyambai directed all firearm dealers to immediately declare and hand over any firearms and ammunition surrendered by owners to the nearest police station. In exceptional cases where the firearm holders are deceased, the IG directed the family members to immediately surrender the weapon to the Firearms Licencing Bureau or the nearest police station within their home jurisdiction within 24 hours. Interior Cabinet Secretary Dr. Fred Matiang’i on February 4 ordered the Civilian Firearm Licencing Board to begin a rigorous vetting exercise of all firearms dealers, civilian firearm holders, and shooting range owners to ascertain the authenticity and proficiency of their permits. “Since then, we have uncovered peculiar lapses and procedural improprieties in the acquisition, use, possessing, and transfer of firearms,” Mutyambai said. The board vetted 9,398 registered gun owners and cleared 6,958. It also confiscated 1,493 firearms and 21,732 assorted rounds of ammunition Some 4,407 registered gun owners never submitted themselves to the mandatory vetting exercise. However, during the grace period, 50 firearms were surrendered to police stations countrywide and another 64 to the Firearm Licencing Bureau. Mutyambai also warned the firearms were not issued as a symbol of status and consequently, any licenced firearm holder who will handle their firearm recklessly, carelessly or display them unnecessarily to the public will have their permits revoked immediately. “In regard to this, I am directing the Regional Commanders from the Station to Regional level to take stern action accordingly,” he said. 