A petition seeking the removal of four Supreme Court judges over alleged gross misconduct in the Wajir gubernatorial election petition has been formally withdrawn. The petitioners, through Nchogu, Omwanza and Nyasimi Advocates, wrote to Chief Justice David Maraga on June 20, to confirm withdrawal of the accusations against justices Mohamed Ibrahim, Jackton Ojwang, Smokin Wanjala and Njoki Ndung’u. “Our clients inform us that they have reached the conclusion to withdraw the allegations as a result of clan harmony, reconciliation and political dynamics in Wajir county,” reads the letter by Omwanza Ombati dated June 20, addressed to Maraga in his capacity as the Judicial Service Commission (JSC) chair. However, the petitioners claimed they stood by their accusations of incompetence against the four judges and allegations of corruption against two of them. “Unfortunately, because of political dynamics, they will not be able to ventilate them,” said Ombati, adding: “However, may the record of history reflect that such an egregious pollution of justice happened at the highest court of the republic,” Ombati said. Dismissed allegations The allegations of corruption and bribery involved the outcome of the controversial election petition in which the Supreme Court ruled four-two in favour of Wajir Governor Mohamed Abdi against his predecessor Ahmed Abdullahi. Justices Maraga and Isaac Lenaola returned separate dissenting judgments. The four judges had filed responses with the JSC, in which they dismissed the allegations as malicious and unsubstantiated. Meanwhile, a man from Kigumo in Murang’a county, has filed a petition with the JSC, calling for disciplinary action and eventual removal of High Court Judge Chacha Mwita for issuing orders in favour of businessman Jimi Wanjigi and his wife Irene Nzisa. Zack Kinuthia protested the judge’s decision to give Wanjigi Sh50,000 anticipatory bail on October 17, 2017 after police recovered several firearms from the tycoon’s residence. The judge also threw out an application by the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP), the Director of Criminal Investigations  and the Inspector-General of Police to have the bail enhanced. The bone of contention is the finding by the judge, pronounced on June 21, that police had violated Wanjigi’s fundamental rights and freedoms, including his right to privacy. The judge also ordered police to return seven firearms to the businessman. The complainant claimed the judge tactfully introduced Wanjigi’s father and another person as owners of two of the guns and ordered the weapons’ release without clear explanation as to how they got into Wanjigi’s home. “His decision amounts to judicial misbehavior and will set an extremely dangerous precedent if he is allowed to get away with his glaring failure to perform judicial functions with due diligence. Nothing short of removal from office will be sufficient to redeem the image and restore the dignity of the Judiciary,” said Kinuthia.