Kinyuru Munuhe @kinyurumunuhe Traders will soon enjoy expanded market access following automation of Certificate of Origin (CO) systems for quick identification of goods originating from Kenya. Kenya National Chamber of Commerce Industry (KNCCI) is currently upgrading Certificate of Origin system to accept issuance of all preferential certificates for exports destined  for Comesa, European Union (Euro 1) and East African Community. Exporting country The Certificate of Origin is a document which certifies that a certain product being exported actually originates from the exporting country for the purpose of facilitating trade between countries. The Certificate of Origin is either preferential or ordinary. Preferential Certificate of Origin is used for exports to the regions where the country has a preferential trade agreement such as African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA), Common market for Eastern and Southern Africa, East African Community and EURO1. Kenya Revenue Authority currently issues these certificates. Speaking during the ongoing Kenya National Trade Week and Exposition 2019 at the Kenyatta International Convention centre, KNCCI President Richard Ngatia said the automation process is in line with organisation’s trade facilitation objectives. “KNCCI through the automated CO system shall develop an online data base-driven, private sector-led directorate and portal for exporters complete with search engine to enable anyone to identify Kenyan exporters of the products being promoted under the Integrated National Export Development and Promotion Strategy,” he added. Ngatia said automation of issuance of ordinary certificates of origin to enhance efficiency and security of the process in 2015 has resulted in an increase in fee collection from Sh1.6 million to Sh4.5 million per month. Types of goods He expressed intentions of the chamber to persuade the government to join ATA Carnets, for the temporary, duty-free importation of various types of goods. The international customs and temporary export-import document is used to clear customs in 87 countries and territories without paying duties and import taxes on non-perishable goods for up to one year.