Lewis Njoka @LewisNjoka Storm clouds are once again gathering over the tea sub-sector following calls by former Prime Minister Raila Odinga for an end to Kenya Tea Development Agency (KTDA) monopoly. Raila asked Parliament while speaking at his Capitol Hill offices last week, to come up with legislation to end the monopoly, adding that Kenya risks losing its top foreign income earner unless urgent action is taken at the top leadership of the agency. The calls, echoed by Kiru Tea Factory Chairman Chege Kirundi, came at a time when tea prices at the Mombasa auction have dropped to their lowest this year at Sh181 per kilo, down from Sh190 last week. However,  the agency which currently manages 69 factories in the small-scale  tea sub-sector, has come out guns blazing, accusing detractors of hiding behind ODM leader to attack it. “Some tea sector stakeholders who have had a run-in with KTDA before are riding on Raila’s political clout to hit back at the agency under the guise of low tea prices,” said a senior executive. The official, who requested to remain anonymous, said one of the people once lost his position as a tea factory chairman, something he blames on the current KTDA leadership. Tea Directorate under Agriculture and Food Authority (AFA) has also been brought into the picture, with the executive saying it is to blame for the crop’s poor marketing and, not cartels as Raila alleged. “There are no cartels, the sale of tea at the Mombasa auction is transparent. However, KTDA and others have to conduct own marketing despite paying AFA to do it on their behalf,” he said. AFA, he added, should negotiate to have embargoes removed so that Kenya can sell  tea in South Africa, Nigeria, Ghana and elsewhere. The ODM leader had asked the Ministry of Agriculture to embark on deliberate steps to remove cartels from the crop through greater transparency in the selling of tea and payment of farmers. Data shows that some processed teas have been selling for as low as Sh36 per kilo, translating to Sh9 per kilo of green leaf before deductions, which leaves almost nothing for the farmer. Warned farmers In February, KTDA warned farmers that their 2019 earnings would be lower than those of 2018. Though there could be corruption, the agency maintained, politics and not low tea prices, is to blame for its current woes. It defended tea prices given to farmers, saying it requires 4.4 kilos of unprocessed green tea to produce one kilogramme of processed tea, meaning that a kilo of green tea goes for about Sh55 only once processed. The farmer then receives monthly payments averaging Sh15 per kilo and an annual bonus which varies from factory to factory, the official said. However, he conceded that the attack on KTDA has exposed rot at the agency which needs to be addressed. He singled out the procurement and sale of fertiliser to farmers by the agency, saying the tendering process was rife with kickbacks. “There is need for the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) to look into this to protect smallholder farmers. We also need procurement officers to undergo a lifestyle audit as some of them are living beyond their means,” he said. “Some directors at the agency have fraudulently awarded their own companies construction tenders worth hundreds of millions in arrangements that reek of corruption and obvious conflict of interest,” added the executive. He also agreed with Raila that the process to elect the 12 KTDA Holdings directors was prone to manipulation, a situation some have exploited to remain in power for decades. “Voting power depends on the number of shares one has. Some directors have remained on the KTDA board for decades voted in by just a few large shareholders against the wishes of the majority,” he added. Raila said there is a feeling among farmers that the current KTDA Board cannot transform the agency, noting that some members have served on that board since the year 2000 through manipulation of processes. “There is need for a forensic audit on financial management of KTDA, its group of companies and all 69 KTDA-managed tea factories. Currently, KTDA is not supervised or regulated like banks, insurances or cooperatives. This must be addressed,” he added. Raila also said the price gap in the industry has given rise to briefcase buyers and hawking of tea, which is illegal. To deal with the proliferation of tea hawking, KTDA created a subsidiary, Greenland Fedha, that offers loans to farmers using tea leaves as collateral. However, the subsidiary has been largely unsuccessful in curbing the practice. KTDA manages at a commission (about 2.5 per cent of turnover), 54 tea companies that own 69 tea factories on behalf of farmers. It serves about 600,000 farmers across the country. Subsidiary companies It has eight subsidiary companies that include an insurance company, a power generating company and the Kericho-based Kenya Tea Packers, Ketepa. Last year, Kenya exported tea worth Sh140.86 billion, according to Central Bank of Kenya data, with KTDA recording Sh85.74 billion worth of earnings from tea sales. The agency almost lost Sh4.9 billion when Imperial Bank and Chase Bank collapsed in 2016. As of June 2018, it had managed to salvage Sh1.7 billion.