Mercy Mwai and Irene Githinji @wangumarci The government yesterday assured that it will ensure 100 per cent transition from Grade Three to Four and Grade Six to Seven under the Competency-Based Curriculum (CBC). Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha told senators that the government is committed to sticking to the 100 per cent transition policy that was realised in the transition from Class Eight to Form One. Speaking at a meeting with the Senate Education committee,  Magoha’s adviser David Njengere said although a taskforce has been unveiled to come up with a transition mechanism, it would be done in the context of the total transition of learners. “The CS has already formed a taskforce to take care of this, however, I want to assure you that the transition will be 100 per cent,” he said. On the transition from Grade Three to Four and Grade Six to Seven, the adviser said examinations would be done for documentation purposes as no child would be denied a chance to proceed to the next stage. Njengere said the test to be done at Grade Six level would help address the challenges that the pupils will have faced to ensure that they are corrected when they move to the next stage. The assurance comes even as the Kenya National Examinations Council (Knec) said Grade Three learners, set to sit their first national assessment in September, would not be ranked. Knec acting chief executive Mercy Karogo said the council will not release results of individual schools or learners, adding that Kenya Early Years Assessment (Keya) is a national assessment and not an examination. Give guidance Meanwhile, Magoha has called for the raising of the age of sexual consent to 21 years, adding that the ministry will deal firmly with teachers who defile schoolgirls. He said he was alarmed by the growing number of teen pregnancies in primary and secondary schools across the country.  Magoha said raising the age of consent will ensure no adult takes advantage of minors. At the same time, Magoha urged the CBC taskforce to burn the midnight oil and, if possible, give him guidance on the three contested areas before the August 16 national conference. One of the major issues the task force seeks to address is where learners in  Grades Seven, Eight and Nine will be based— in secondary or primary schools. The CS made the remarks as he officially inaugurated the task force, led by Prof Fatuma Chege, at the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development (KICD).