Margie Muga is a beauty and natural hair blogger on Instagram as @justmargie and her YouTube channel Margie Muga. The 2019 BAKE award nominee also sells shoes on her online platform Style Loft Kenya. She shares her fashion secrets with Nailantei Norari How can you describe your style? Afro funky with a dash of elegance. What inspired you to start blogging about beauty and hair? When I went natural, many people would stop me to ask what exactly I did to my hair. From Bantu knots to the simple curly high puff, they wanted the detailed process and products used. So, while in Kenya School of Law in 2016, I started www.justmargie.com before slowly setting up my YouTube Channel. What does fashion mean to you and how does it integrate into your personal and professional life? Fashion speaks volumes about a person without uttering a word. Sometimes we tell the world who we are by how we dress and that is exactly why I am conscious about how I dress or even style my hair. I am also obsessed with statement shoes and that is why I ventured into selling shoes through my business Style Loft Kenya. Do you think your relationship with hair has evolved over time? Definitely! I had relaxed hair years back, whose length I loved and a non-existent hairline soon after. I dared to revert back to natural hair a few years ago and sooner than expected, I fell in love with my natural tresses. What is the one thing you cannot leave the house without? It is funny, but you will always find an Afro pick comb in my bag when my hair is open, which is actually 90 per cent of the time. What is your best fashion buy? My high waist palazzo pants. They suit both casual and formal occasions. Who is your style icon and why? I love Issa Rae’s style. She boldly rocks her natural hair in different styles and I love that she keeps it simple and chic. What is your go to hairstyle? High puffs have always been my go-to hairstyle, but I am slowly loving how liberating rocking Afro is. What do you currently splurge on? I am a sucker for lipsticks! In your opinion, what’s the worst thing someone can do to their hair? Mess their hairline with tight protective styles. Your hairline plays an integral role in how you look as it shapes your face. What hair care and beauty products should be on every girl’s bedside table? For hair, a spritz bottle of water to moisturise, an oil to seal in moisture, a shampoo to cleanse your hair and scalp and a deep conditioner to strengthen your hair. Deep conditioning your hair and keeping it moisturised have to be the best things you can do for your hair. As for beauty, I have learnt the importance of a good moisturiser with sun protection factor (SPF) through my eczema journey. Get one that works for you and stick to it. What are your thoughts on the Kenyan beauty scene, especially on matters hair? I love that Kenyan brands have embraced the needs of our natural hair and that Kenyan natural hair brands are growing. I also love the fact that having natural hair is now considered a norm rather than an exception. Many women have embraced it and are eager to learn how to take care of their natural hair. What would be beauty or fashion advice for aspiring content creators? Be yourself, be consistent and give it your all. You will invariably connect with your audience if you let your personality shine through your work.