Peter Okong’o @peterokongo Kenyans stand to gain from innovation and better quality of services if recent amendments to the insurance law are well implemented. The Insurance Amendment Act 2018  was signed into law last week by President Uhuru Kenyatta. It requires one to pay premiums directly to an insurance firm without using intermediaries, including brokers and insurance agents, whose primarily role will be to woo new clients for insurers. According to Joseph Jamwaka, a consultant and former director of the Insurance Institute of Kenya (IIK), the amendments can help raise insurance coverage beyond the current three per cent of Kenya’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and improve the standards and quality of service in the industry. Insurance claims “It should boost the cash flow of many insurers who will no longer have to rely on intermediaries to remit premiums. This will encourage innovation and competition based on quality of service and allow for expeditious settlement of valid insurance claims,” Jamwaka told Business Hub. “Association of Insurance Brokers of Kenya (AIBK) and Association of Kenya Insurers (AKI) need to agree as trade bodies on how to best implement the new law with their clients in mind knowing fully well that customers will demand cheaper premiums,” he said. AIBK, which was aggrieved by the clause banning brokers from handling clients’ funds, had previously threatened to go to court if the amendments became law. Yesterday, AIBK chairman Nelson Omolo, while admitting that their demands were ignored in the new law, remained tight-lipped on AIBK’s next course of action.  “Certainly, our expectations were not met,” said Omolo before asking for more time to respond. But Jamwaka expects policyholders to benefit from discounts on premiums as the changes will see direct interaction between them and insurers, allowing the latter to develop a more accurate and intimate profile of their clients, just like banks benefit from their know-your-customer rules. He said AIBK and AIK must approach the change without hiding cards under the table as the current cash-and-carry model is not sustainable. “There will definitely be a disruption to the sector and even to banking. Brokers will need to redefine their roles. The millennials they are targeting are well educated and tech savvy and so prefer dealing directly with service providers,” said Jamwaka. The amendments were drafted to make it easier for underwriters to offer index-based insurance (IBI) in the agricultural sector where traditional insurance would prove prohibitive in remote rural communities, but now promises wider benefits for a sector that has been struggling to grow beyond its traditional base. Shared risks IBI allows insurers to sell policies that protect clients who share risks like weather fluctuations or major disease outbreaks that can be catastrophic for farmers in a specific region.  Traditional insurance makes the cost of verifying such losses too high for clusters of small landholdings. Advanced satellite technology has made possible accurate data analysis of indices associated with climate change, including rainfall and crop yields, allowing insurers to provide farmers with safety nets through IBI. Where an index overshoots a measurable threshold, the farmers can get paid quickly through their mobile phones. With mobile phone penetration in Kenya among the highest in Africa, the potential of IBI to deepen crop and livestock insurance and transform farming in remote locations is seen as viable by many experts. The Index-based Insurance Policy Paper drawn up by the Insurance Regulatory Authority (IRA) in 2015, recommended payment of IBI as fixed-sum products that “address the true underlying risk” like insufficient rain. “Conventional crop or livestock insurance relies on direct measurement of the loss or damage suffered by the farmer. However, field loss assessment is normally costly or not feasible, particularly where there are a large number of small-scale farmers or where insurance markets are undeveloped,” said the authority in the policy paper.