Zadock Angira @PeopleDailyKe The history of the Administration Police can be traced back to 1902 when it was formed with the enactment of the Village Headman Ordinance which was to enable the penetration of the native areas to enforce tax and control livestock movement among other issues. Then, the village headman (Chiefs) were the prime instruments of Regional Agents (DCs). Kenya Police were deployed in the urban areas, the railway routes and areas of the propertied classes, while the AP concentrated in the rural areas to enforce often unpopular colonial policies. In 1929, the Tribal Police Ordinance was enacted to give legal backing to the Native Police and their training taken up by the respective regional agents, most of who had a military background. Centralised training With the exception of frontier areas, the force remained unarmed and thin in numbers. Major expansion of the Tribal Police started around 1948 with increased native agitation and the fear of widespread rebellion. The numbers were increased, especially in the Central Province, to prevent the spread of Mau Mau influence during Emergency years. In 1958, the Tribal Police Ordinance was changed to AP Act and the force commenced centralised training at Ruringu, in Nyeri. At Independence, the Provincial Administration and AP were moved from the Ministry of Native Affairs to the Office of the Prime Minister, later Office of the President. Centralisation of training and command continued in the 60s. The Embakasi Training School was set up in 1967 at the present day Jomo Kenyatta International Airport and later moved to the current Administration Police Training College (APTC) in 1972. First female AP In the late 70s the inspectorate ranks were introduced in AP and the initial batch of inspectors trained at the KPS College Kiganjo. However, when the government established the District Focus for Rural Development, a lot of responsibility was put on the DCs and as a result they could not supervise the AP matters effectively. As a result, the AP transformed gradually from 1958 from a localised to a national police service. In 1987, the first female officers joined AP. The outcome of the Constitution of Kenya Review Commission talks of 2002-2004 created the autonomy of the AP to provide safety and security. In 2011, the law established the NPS under the command of Inspector General of Police in charge of both the APS and the KPS.