Irene Githinji @gitshee A new report has painted a worrying picture in the performance of science subjects in schools with just a small fraction of students attaining 50 per cent marks, midway in their secondary education. It also emerged that Mathematics and Biology continue to be most challenging subjects for learners even as the government makes spirited efforts to encourage students to embrace science subjects to achieve its industrialisation goals. According to the Monitoring Learner Achievements (MLA) report seen by People Daily, the mean score in six subjects assessed, namely Mathematics, English, Kiswahili, Biology and Chemistry, stood at 40 per cent, save for English which recorded 45.7 per cent. The lowest achievements were recorded in Mathematics and Biology with means of 23.4 per cent and 17.7 per cent, respectively. The dismal performance in Biology is consistent with recent trends in the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) examination. Low mastery of content The report of the MLA survey, which was sponsored by the Kenya National Examinations Council (KNEC), further points to a low proportion of learners having attained minimum proficiency of 50 per cent in the said subjects. It emerged that nearly 9 in 10 leaners did not score the 50 per cent benchmark in Mathematics and Biology while 8 out of 10 students could not do so in Kiswahili and Chemistry. On the other hand, 7 out of 10 leaners could not attain minimum proficiency in Physics while 6 out of 10 could not do the same in English. As far as subject analysis is concerned, the report showed that students have low mastery of content in almost all core operations which they begin learning about at primary level. “For instance, in Mathematics, less than 15 per cent of students attained the minimum benchmark in core operations like Numbers, Measurements, Algebra, Geometry, Trigonometry, Statistics and Geometry,” says the report. The survey sampled learners in Grade Two, Grade Three, Class 7, and students in Form Two, the midway class in secondary school education. Also observed at secondary level were gender differences in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics, where male students performed better than females. In Mathematics, boys achieved a slightly higher mean score than girls at 24.7 per cent against 22 per cent, while girls attained slightly higher mean scores in English and Kiswahili, at 46.9 per cent and 38.2 per cent against 44.5 per cent and 37.1 per cent, respectively. The report has also shown low skill acquisition carried over over from primary to secondary levels for Form 2 students; going by the six subjects they were assessed in. These are part of the findings of a report to be launched this morning by Education Cabinet secretary Prof George Magoha in Nakuru High School, where he will also initiate the Competence Based Curriculum (CBC) dialogues. Similar events will take place in eight regions with Education Principal Secretary, Belio Kipsang’ leading the exercise in Nyeri and his counterpart in the Department of University Education and Research Colletta Suda presiding over the event at Kisumu Girls. Department of Post Training and Skills Development PS Alfred Cheruiyot will be at Kakamega High School, his TVET counterpart Kevit Desai and CS Advisor David Njengere at Kangaru Boys High School while Teachers Service Commission chief executive Nancy Macharia and Director General Elyas Abdi will be at Shimo La Tewa and Garissa High schools, respectively. Absenteeism The National Assessment Systems for Monitoring Learning Achievements (NASMLA) for Class 3 showed that majority of Grade 3 learners, over 80 per cent, can easily handle simple addition and subtraction operations such as adding numbers without carrying over and subtracting without borrowing. The report further showed that a relatively large proportion, face challenges with higher order mathematical operations. Almost all Class 3 learners, 9 out of 10, cannot translate information presented in sentences into simple arithmetic operations. “Learning trends in literacy among Grade 3 learners also showed weak comprehension among learners. Almost 40 per cent and 20 per cent cannot pass as emergent readers in English and Kiswahili, respectively… they cannot correctly spell simple everyday words and cannot recognise missing letters in such words,” the report further states. The NASMLA for Class 7 showed that more than 70 per cent of Class 7 learners did not attain the 50 per cent minimum benchmark in Mathematics, while over 60 per cent could not attain the halfway mark in Kiswahili. Similarly, close to 60 per cent could not attain the 50 per cent minimum benchmark in Science and English. “The low achievement levels are worrying since the assessments were administered in January when the learners had commenced Class 8, pointing to ‘low skills acquisition carry-over’ to secondary education,” the report adds. According to the findings, some of the factors affecting learning is absenteeism. “While being absent is associated with lower achievement, learner absenteeism remains relatively high, an estimated 60 per cent of children in Class 7 and Form 2 learners reported to have been absent from school on at least one day during the term.” Also worrying is the school dropout rates, despite the Free Primary Education policy and the subsidised secondary education. “Close to 8 in 10 headteachers reported that they had experienced cases of dropout among Class 7 learners from 2016 to 2018,” says the report. It was further established that provision of meals reduced absenteeism leading to higher achievement levels. Cases of indiscipline were also noted. For instance, close to 9 in 10 teachers across all the studies reported to have such issues among Class 3 pupils in their schools. Parental involvement Cases of student indiscipline were related to drug and substance abuse, absenteeism and noise making. As far as teacher related factors are concerned, there is low integration of ICT in teaching and learning among tutors due to lack of skills. On teaching methods, it emerged that most classes are characterised by teacher-centred approaches as opposed to the learner-centred approaches that encourage enquiry. Low parental involvement was also detected, with the report showing only 2 out of 10 Class 3 and 7 learners said they were assisted by parents to do homework.