Competition is the mother of rivalry. So, it does not surprise me when University of Nairobi mobs and Kenyatta University crowds take to social media to wage verbal wars over who is greater than who. The showdown takes place at a Facebook page called ‘New Comrades Forum’, where missiles are hurled over who is mightier than whom. While such competition is fine, the problem is that these kids don’t compete over merit. They never talk about who had done better projects or who has won global academic awards and so on. All they do is trade barbs about whose hostel has more bedbugs, who is feared by cops more than who, who has a better gate than who and such nonsense. It’s almost a replica of primary school break time banter! In the red corner is a pack of UoN verbal arsonists, who always brag how there’s only one university south of Sahara, north of Limpopo, lying close to the equator, located along ‘university way’, the only university with article ‘the’ in its name; The University of Nairobi! They say KU is a day-school along a world class highway! Wait till you hear that they christened KU Kunguni University due to the strangely high population of bedbugs in its hostels. On the blue corner, KU peeps shun all those claims with the quote “Students of UoN walk like they own the town. Students in KU walk like they don’t care who owns the town!” KU peeps say that UoN should give the campus a proper name and stop giving people directions. It’s just the other day a person posed the question on the page” “What does UoN even mean? These people brag a lot.” The answer was quickly served… “University of Nonsense…lol.” The war never ends. KU have a better school gate than UoN, they always say. Apparently, the ‘State-of-art gate for a state-of-art university’ banter went under when one UoN ninja took to social media and said, “KU people busy bragging about a gate that was designed by an UoN second year!” This is not far from one famous quote by former Student Organisation of Nairobi University chairman Babu Owino, who once said, “One diploma student in UoN is equivalent to 10,000 pupils in KU.” Honestly, in the spirit of handshake, these two siblings need to be friends. After all, whether UoN or KU, you will all tarmac together to look for non-existent jobs after campus.