Shawn Osimbo in Cairo The 2019 Africa Cup of Nations has registered disappointing numbers in the stadiums so far.  A sight of empty stands shows how organisers may have failed to put up a spirited campaign to attract stadium attendance and the situation looks not to be changing any time soon. Only host nation Egypt has enjoyed massive support with numbers almost approaching 70,000 whenever the Pharaohs are in action. While many across the continent have attributed the low numbers to lack of interest from the Egyptian masses, the problem could also be down to the organisers who have made purchasing of a ticket a great pain. Ahead of the tournament, Confederation of African Football (CAF) joined the tech revolution, introducing a system that personally deals with ticketing. To access a match ticket, one needs to log onto tazkarti.com to sign up for the fan ID and wait up to 48 hours before their profile is approved. Once approved, you will only have two hours to purchase a ticket online or at designated points across Cairo. This means you need to have your cash on standby. Purchasing of tickets at the stadium as most fans across Africa are used to is prohibited at Afcon and this has drawn immense criticism with many terming it hectic. For instance, Harambee Stars opening fixture against Algeria saw dozens of fans locked out after failing to show up with match tickets while ahead of Tanzania match, some Kenyan supporters managed to get fan IDs but the pricing was a bit prohibitive. “The problem in Egypt is things are digitally. Kenyans are used to shortcuts and we go to games with even fake tickets,” said Judith Nyangi, Gor Mahia’s organising secretary, who is in Cairo to support Harambee Stars. She added: “Our leaders who came here early were supposed to organise tickets for fans because those available are going for 300 EGYP (Sh1,800) which is expensive to most fans.” For a Kenyan fan who paid Sh85,000 for a return air ticket to Cairo and parting with Sh5,000 daily for accommodation, that looks like a wated trip.