Kariobangi Sharks are licking their fingers ahead of their historic march against English Premier League side Everton at Kasarani Stadium on July 7. In what will be their second trip to East Africa, Everton will become the first EPL side to play in Kenya, having faced Gor Mahia in Dar es Salaam in 2017 and the meeting with Sharks will be a treat to local football enthusiasts. However, Sharks coach William Muluya is not worried about the threat posed by the Toffees given his side is not enjoying a good run in the SportPesa Premier League, having gone 10 matches without a win. “For now, my focus is not on the match against Everton but the remaining league fixtures that my team faces. We need to put all our concentration on them if we are to finish in a favourable position. After that, we can take one month off to prepare adequately for the historic match,” said Muluya, whose team lie ninth on the table standing with 35 points. Confirmed match Sharks earned the right to face Everton after beating Bandari FC to win the SportPesa Cup in Dar es Salaam in January. Everton, who beat Gor 2-1 in 2017, confirmed the match as one of their pre-season ties with SportPesa Chief Executive Officer Ronald Karauri saying Sharks have all the qualities to win it. “Sharks are team that has defied many odds to first make it to Kenya’s top league, earning their stripes by winning the Shield Cup  and to our delight, the SportPesa Cup tournament in Tanzania. These boys have all it takes to host Everton for this historic match. It will be a record making match as well as a much-needed catalyst to boost careers in local football as well as sports development,” said Karauri. Extremely excited Everton Commercial Director Alan McTavish said: “We are extremely excited to be heading back to Africa to play against Kariobangi. We were given an exceptionally warm welcome when we played in Tanzania in 2017 and are looking forward to visiting Kenya.” He added: “Just like the last time we took the team to East Africa, we will be delivering extensive community and fan engagement activities with our friends from SportPesa, and we will be learning more about the rich culture of the country.”