Hellen Njeri Congratulations on becoming a store owner. Building your own business is a fun experience. Being a new entrepreneur is exciting because everything is new. However, sometimes, new entrepreneurs get a little too excited about the wrong things. Here are some tips that will get you on the right track. 1. EXPERIMENT LIKE YOUR BUSINESS DEPENDS ON IT. To really succeed, experiment a lot. You will need to create ads for different products. Test different copy, formats and images. Experimenting with ads is what will eventually bring in customers and drive sales. Once you have created profitable ads you can start experimenting on your website. Many people focus on improving their website first. However, you do not know how customers are responding to certain features if you do not have any yet. Avoid making assumptions about your customers. Be open to being wrong about what really works. 2. DO NOT POCKET THE PROFITS JUST YET It can be tempting to keep any profit you make, as matter of fact, the first profit is the most fulfilling. However, if you want your business to grow, reinvest money into your venture. Money makes money. Instead of making a purchase to buy new equipment, or get a bigger office, spend your profit on advertising. You’ll probably want to create several ads at first to see which product people respond to best. However, once you’ve found your winning product, spend a lot more on ads to make the kind of money you dreamt of. If your goal is to make a certain amount of profit each month, you will need to evaluate how much to spend on ads, which will bring in the targeted revenue. Boosted Facebook posts convert best for some products for example goods, shoes and delivered groceries but you need to find the type of ads that work best for your type of business. By reinvesting the profit for several months, you give your business a chance to grow and become sustainable. Eventually, you will be able to live off the money you are making. 3. COMMIT TO A SCHEDULE TO ENHANCE CONSISTENCY. When starting a new e-commerce store, follow a consistent schedule so that your customers know when to check back. For example, if you add new products each week, you should do it on the same day of the week so people check back on your website on that particular day. If you commit to a blog, adding posts on the same days will encourage people to keep checking back. As soon as you become inconsistent, you start to lose your customer loyalty. 4. BUILD BRAND FROM DAY ONE. As soon as you have bought your store domain name, start building out an audience. You might start with posts on social media to grow a fan-base so that after the launch you have an audience ready to buy. Once your store is launched, start collecting email addresses and building referral traffic. By doing this from day one, you’ll grow the customer base faster. By focusing on building out social media, email list and referral traffic, you will likely need to spend less on ads over the long-term. 5. BUILDING RELATIONSHIPS WITH INFLUENCERS It takes a few months to find the best influencers to promote your products and even then it’s not guaranteed. Finding a great influencer is a lot harder than it looks. Sometimes an influencer has a high price-tag but it does not convert to sales. You might want referrals from bloggers and digital marketing experts. A great influencer must first understand the product. You can use influencer marketing platforms that can connect influencers and companies. Some of them provide access to databases of hundreds or even thousands of influencers. You can use social media monitoring tools to help with tracking your industry on social networks, this will help to identify a really good influencer. 6. KEEP YOUR CUSTOMERS IN THE KNOW When starting an ecommerce store make sure your customers have access to everything they need to make an informed purchase. Include shipping and return information so that customers are aware of the policies before their purchase. Make sure you have a visible contact page so that customers can easily contact you should an issue or question arise. Lastly, ensure the content used is relevant; example if you are selling shoes, what do shoe-consumers expect to see or read. Does your content communicate the value proposition: the competitive advantage of your products? Writing a description about the product and selecting the most valuable bullet points will better help you achieve more sales. People often read the copy if they are on the fence for a product.  By writing a short paragraph detailing how the product benefits your customer, you will be able to persuade browsers into purchase.