How was your first encounter like? Paul: We met in church in 2012. She was in the praise and worship team. That is where I noticed her. Later that year, we went for a church youth camp, where we got to know more about each other. She was stubborn at first, but eventually gave in two years later. I was also shy initially, but got my act together later, which explains the elongated period in pursuing her. How did you finally settle in your heart that she was the one? Coming from a Christian background, I separated myself for about one week to go and pray and ask God if this was my lost rib. He eventually confirmed this through a servant of God and through His word. Was there a formal proposal after the confirmation? Yes there was. So, since I work at the airport, I told her that we where having a family day at the workplace, where the company had organised breakfast, and that we were to go with our better halves. She fell for it, and upon reaching the airport, we went to the local departures where I told her that we would have the breakfast in Mombasa and not Nairobi. She was super surprised. We flew to Mombasa, watched a movie at Nyali Cinemax, went to Haller Park then had a late lunch at English Point Marina. Then, later that evening, flew back to Nairobi where friends and family were waiting for us. I popped the question shortly after 10pm at JKIA. How did your families take it, being that you come from different tribes? Initially, there was shock from some of our family members, especially because we come from tribes that have quite some history, but my parents knew Purity as an individual and they had come to love and appreciate her for who she was. How was the wedding planning process? We thank God that it was not so challenging. Being from the same church and part of a vibrant youth team, we had a support system. Colleagues and friends came through in a level we never expected. Our parents also supported us all the way. Not forgetting the importance of technology in all of this; we had a WhatsApp committee that went all out to make sure our day was successful. They gave us more than the budget required. Committees are increasingly becoming unpopular. How did you make yours work? We sought consent before adding members to the group. Most of them easily accepted, but there are those who politely declined but promised support. We had weekly meetings three months to the wedding, which were mostly attended by the church youth members, who participated voluntarily. What are some of the memorable moments in your wedding? The wedding vows, which we specially wrote for each other and came from the bottom of our hearts. The bridal team also danced so well in church. There is also our entry to the reception venue. We came in riding on a motorcycle, whereas people expected we would be in the vehicle. Not forgetting when we where declared husband and wife by the presiding bishop. Did you face any challenges? We underestimated our wedding guests, and the list grew to well over 700 people, whereas we expected 500. There was little we could do since this happened on the D-day. The food vendor really tried to make sure everyone was fed, but the difference was huge, so a few people missed the main dish. We had some nyama choma though, which came in handy for those who had not eaten. Your parting shot? Involve God in your plans and you will have success. Make time to sit and plan because failure to plan is planning to fail. Keep an inner circle that will help you run things because no matter how good you are, you cannot do everything. Lastly, make sure you have time for the two of you so that you are not swallowed by the plans. Occasionally, just take a break and talk about anything other than the wedding.