The minute the plane landed at Abeid Amani Karume International Airport, my heart skipped beats like a little baby waiting to play with a new toy. I couldn’t wait to see what this beautiful island had in store. Deep down, I had a mixture of both anxiety and fear. Being my first time, I wondered whether I would see him, or whether he would remember that he was supposed to pick me up. Thankfully after the tough security check, my guide Mussa Juma was already there with a banner with my name written in bold. I didn’t even get to the hotel to leave my bags; our tour of Stone town began immediately we said hi to each other. Zanzibar is intrinsically connected to the Arabs who managed to end Portuguese reign on the Indian Ocean trade after capturing Fort Jesus, which was their base of operation in 1968. Consequently, in order to guard the island, in early 1710, the Arabs built the Old Fort in present-day Stone Town, the island. That explains the old mansions and king’s palaces, the old Turkish baths, Arab doors with delicately detailed crafted frames with Arabic inscriptions at the top. I was mesmerised by how Mussa knew the labyrinth of streets that were too narrow for cars. It would take me an eternity to ever find my way home.  Islam, the predominant religion, is felt in the dressing, in hearing a Muezzin’s call to prayer echo through the buildings, in the jewellery as well as in the crafts. I remember reading before the trip on the importance of wearing conservative clothing so as not to offend their culture. Just like in our Coastal towns, life here is slow and the ocean governs the affairs of most things. When Sayyid Said Bin Sultan Al Bu Said took power in Muscat in 1806 as the Sultan of Oman, he decided to visit Zanzibar and was not only captivated by its charm, but also the potential profits that would be accrued from the spice trade. That’s how in 1840, he transferred his capital from Muscat to Zanzibar and encouraged everyone in Zanzibar to grow cloves. It is said that he even threatened to confiscate their property should anyone defy the order. That is why the island is renowned for its spices. One of the other places, which fascinated me, was the prison or Changuu island (Changuu referring to a fish common to this side of the ocean). It’s a 30-minute boat ride to get to this island that was used as a jail for rebellious slaves in the 1860s. Later on, the first British Minister of Zanzibar, Lloyd Mathews opted to buy the island as a prison station but since no convict was ever taken there, it became a quarantine station for yellow fever cases. Currently, it has become a tourist resort with Aldabra giant tortoises, a gift from the British governor of Seychelles. While there you should also visit the former slave market and get to understand the dark side of slave history. I almost shed tears entering the stuffy, petite dungeons where the slaves were kept. In 1847, under the mounting pressure of the British, Sultan Said agreed to end the slave trade. An Anglican church was built at that place as a symbol of emancipation from tyranny. A walk inside and you’ll see the mélange of gothic, Zanzibari as well as Middle-Eastern designs. I was impressed by how alive Stone town became in the evenings with locals feasting, kids playing and others just chatting. A visit to the Forodhani market, a central park cum night market, was refreshing as we saw both local and international tourists sample various street foods like the Zanzibar pizza, Indian spiced chicken and some kalamaris.