AMOS ABUGA Leaders Butali Sugar Warriors will be out to extend their unbeaten run when they take on United States International University of Africa (USIU-Africa) on Saturday evening in a Kenya Hockey Union (KHU) men’s Premier League match at City Park Stadium, Nairobi. The encounter will be part of one of the 16 matches slated for this weekend across the five KHU competitions. The Kisumu-based side hopes for maximum points from the fixture to maintain their 100 per cent record in the league so far. They will come to the fixture with high spirits in the wake of a 7-0 mauling of 2016 winners Strathmore University Gladiators last Sunday. Scientific Former player and now coach Dennis Owoka is aware of the importantance of the fixture for the team which is seeking to win back-to-back titles. “We are going for maximum points though It is a tricky fixture,” said Owoka. “They have always given us problems so we will be a little cautious but definitely we will play three strikers,” said Owoka while disclosing the team formation for the 6pm fixture. Butali, who reclaimed the title last season from Kenya Police, will fancy their chances against USIU-A who have won once in three matches. On Sunday Police who will be hoping to make ground with the leading pack when they play in-form Greensharks in a late kick off. The law enforcers on four points can move to within two points off Sharks who are on nine points. The Patrick Mugambi-led troops staged a spirited comeback overturning a 3-0 defeat in the first half to eventually beat hosts Western Jaguars 5-3 in Kakamega last weekend. In the women’s Premier League, Amira Saliors will be in contention for the six points on offer when they play USIU-A on Saturday before taking on Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology Sunday. Amira who have shown significant improvement in the league opened the season by forcing champions Telkom to a barren draw before winning their second match against Kenyatta University. – AMOS ABUGA