In the second instalment  of a three-part series, PATRICK MWANGI argues banks have not embraced borrowers credit profile in lending The news that billionaire entrepreneur Peter Nduati had sued a mobile lending app for wrongfully blacklisting him with a credit reference bureau (CRBs) shows why the bureaus have assumed such notoriety in Kenya today. Nduati was not only blacklisted over a Sh1,000 mobile loan he supposedly took, but apparently, a bank used that listing as an excuse to deny him business credit. This means that the commercial bank used the CRB default status, not as information to factor into their lending decision, but as a ban. To add salt to injury, the lender never informed him of the negative listing as required by law. A recent report from one of the CRBs in Kenya says that at least 500,000 Kenyans have been blacklisted by CRBs. Going by Nduati’s case, it means that irrespective of how healthy your financial profile otherwise is, banks will use CRB blacklisting as an absolute, locking you out of the credit market! Lenders have apparently not embraced the use of CRB information as a parameter in their lending, using it instead as a hammer. According to Metropol Corporation managing director Sam Omukoko, banks were initially only required to post negative information with the CRBs.  Subsequent amendments to the CRB laws now require them to post all credit information for every borrower. CRBs are mandated by law to receive information from lenders and package it into a credit score that can be used to determine whether you are a default risk. The law mandates banks and microfinance institutions to refer information to CRBs. It has also allowed saccos, utilities and trade organisations to post information. Credit appraisals Kenya Bankers Association director of research Jared Osoro says that CRBs were not established as a way of outsourcing credit appraisals by lenders. CRB information should just be part of the package. There has been a huge outcry about the Higher Education Loans Board (Helb) blacklisting students after they failed to start paying their loans or service them regularly. This, they said, disproportionately affects the youth. Helb chief executive Charles Ringera says that they post information of all loanees to CRB. However, negative information is posted after one-and-a-half years, when the loan is now deemed to be non-performing. He, however, exhorts students with job difficulties to approach Helb so that they can work out ways in which the borrower can maintain a positive credit profile. “Helb listens,” he adds. Even as CRBs bear the brunt of public outrage, credit players hail its role in expanding credit uptake. Omukoko says that with the coming into effect of the full file information sharing, CRBs were able to calculate a credit score for individuals, as well as repayment history. It meant that lenders could now issue loans purely on the strength of the CRBs information. He says that this is what led to the explosion of mobile-based lenders in the country. According to the Central Bank of Kenya, there are 49 mobile-based lenders in the country. The process of borrowing from a mobile-based lender is simple. One only needs to apply to the lender who assigns you a limit and dispatches the money- all in a matter of minutes. The secret – your credit profile at the CRB. Obviously, an existing default means one is automatically excluded. A major challenge is lenders who do not act immediately to update records at CRB when borrowers discharge their defaults. There are numerous cases where negative information is not updated years after borrowers have settled defaulted accounts. Ping pong game Borrowers, who seek to rectify their credit information, keep being bounced between the lender and the CRB in a frustrating ping pong that can take weeks. Omukoko lays the blame for this squarely at the feet of lenders. He says that it is the responsibility of lenders to update borrowers information immediately, especially because banks and MFIs now post information on a daily basis. Lawyers note that borrowers who find themselves in this situation can sue the lender and courts have awarded substantial damages for such breaches. The lending framework has changed dramatically. The ground has shifted, and the new king of the lending market is the credit score. The new environment gives power to the borrower and control of their own destiny. Market players also dismiss the outcry over borrowers being blacklisted for failure to clear small amounts. Ringera says it is an issue of integrity. “It is not about the quantum, it is about your atttitude towards payment of your debt obligations,” says Omukoko. For what has become a critical part of the lending infrastructure in Kenya, there has been very little public awareness. Many people do not even know the importance of a credit score or the need to ensure they manage their credit profile aggressively. Many have never even accessed their credit report. Neither the CBK, Treasury or CRBs find any need to educate the public. Industry sources say Treasury will launch a public awareness campaign “soon,” but CRB rollout put the cart before the horse. The writer can be reached on ndungum49@hotmail.com