Alice Mwai The insurance sector has definitely had its fair share of wins and losses in the recent years. Due to harsh economic times rocked by two elections, low insurance penetration and fraud, this sector has been dealt its hardest blow yet. The industry as a whole experienced an underwriting loss of Sh1.65 billion last year, making it the biggest loss in the past 10 years with the total profit after tax down from Sh11.1 billion to Sh6.8 billion last year as both claims and management expenses increased across the board. Regulatory changes made in 2016 resulted in the increase of costs for some insurance companies. This may have directly resulted in increased capital injection into underwriters especially those that moved into the general insurance space. The sector has also been heavily affected by fraud. Examples include fake insurance agents who sell non-existent covers to unsuspecting clients. It is only when disaster strikes that the victim realises that they have been scammed. In terms of motor insurance, we have seen people producing fake valuation reports seeking to receive a huge compensation. There are instances where client with home cover, fake burglaries to scam their insurers. According to Resolution Insurance chief executive Peter Nduati, in 2018 alone the underwriter received claims of more than Sh3 billion, 82 per cent of which were paid off. Amongst this sum, three per cent were declined mostly due to fraud. It is therefore important for all insurance companies to conduct thorough and time-bound investigations in order to distinguish credible claims from fraudulent ones. Kenyans should also exercise patience during this period of investigation. All is not lost for the insurance industry. We can turn things around through product innovation and strategies that focus on automation and analytics that will improve customer experiences, strengthen and create new partnerships, improve county business and alternative distribution while reducing management expense. Before we do this it is extremely important to implement educational campaigns within the country to help demystify the role of insurance as a critical part of life so as to encourage and initiate trial and uptake of more insurance products. As insurers we should come up with innovative and customer-centric products. It is our task to research on what our customers need when it comes to matters insurance. Product innovation will not only help drive sales but also increase insurance penetration in the nation. It is also key to identify, understand and implement growth strategies within our industry that will help insurers succeed and increase their premiums.  Creative and practical strategies will help more insurance companies improve profitability and better manage expenses.- The writer is Resolution Insurance managing director