The widely used weed killer agrochemical, glyphosate (whose best known brand name is RoundUp) has triggered off a global debate after a court in the US ruled that it contributed to a man’s terminal cancer (non-Hodgkin lymphoma). Following the court’s order for manufacturer Monsanto to compensate the former school ground’s keeper $289 million (Sh29.2 billion), more than 9,000 people are also suing the company. However, a judge later slashed the damages payout to $78 million (Sh7.8 billion). The ruling comes at a time when a rise of cancer cases in farming regions of Kenya has triggered panic and fear, with weed killers and other agrochemicals now being suspected for causing the increased incidences of the disease. A medic involved in research to establish reasons behind the rise of the disease among farming communities in agriculture rich counties, Robert Mwangi says the weed killer glyphosate remains the most suspected cause. He regrets that not much has been done by the national and county governments to establish the real cause of cancer rise in the farming regions. He accuses politicians at both the county and national government of wasting resources in failed attempts to control the spread as cancer spreads in farming areas. “A crisis is looming and the response has been panic, helplessness and fighting fires,” says Mwangi, a clinician with Bachelor of Science in Nursing and author of the book Dollar Alter. In February this year, researchers from the University of Washington said they evaluated existing studies into the chemical —  found in weed killers including Monsanto’s popular Roundup— and concluded that it significantly increases the risk of non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL), a cancer of the immune system. “All of the meta-analyses conducted to date, including our own, consistently report the same key finding: exposure to GBHs (glyphosate-based herbicides) are associated with an increased risk of NHL,” they wrote in a study published in the journal Mutation Research. In Kenya, Nyandarua county is best known for its fertile soils but is now hard hit by cancer cases. Farmers in this county consider weed killers a miracle and a solution to the persistent weeds.  The use of weed killer in this county by small-scale farmers is recent, but widespread. Coincidentally, farmers in Nyandarua are grappling with cancer, a new phenomenon in the area. Former county Woman Representative is all too familiar with the crisis.  In May 2015, she helped raise Sh10 million to build a Sh1 billion Cancer Centre at Miharati, Kipipiri.  “I was shocked to learn from a local veterinarian that cows are being sold in slaughterhouses with strange ailments and that the numbers are rising,” says Mwangi. Is it possible that cancer cases have risen in Nyandarua county necessitating such huge cancer treatment centres due to something they have adapted recently?  Could Glyphosate-based weed killers like RoundUp be the culprit just like in the California’s case, as it’s entered their faming practice only in the recent past? Could the cows be getting cancerous because of contaminated drinking water flowing from trenches that drain the soil to prevent water logging in Kipipiri?  More research is needed. However, Kenyan researcher Cliopus Mundia, who is conversant with food links to terminal diseases, says the US court did not produce new scientific data. He says those who believe glyphosate causes cancer often refer to the 2015 report by the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) that classified the herbicide as “probably carcinogenic to humans”. “IARC’s conclusion was arrived at using a narrower base of evidence than other recent peer-reviewed papers and governmental reviews,” says Mundia, an for Mombasa Polytechnic lecturer, citing several past reports about the issue. The Agricultural Health Study, which followed more than 50,000 people in the US for over 10 years, was published in 2018. This real world study in the populations with the highest exposure to glyphosate showed that if there is any risk of cancer from glyphosate preparations, it is exceedingly small. It also showed that the risk of non-Hodgkin lymphoma is negligible. It is unclear to what extent this study was used in the recent court case. Glyphosate is one of the most used herbicides worldwide. It kills weeds by targeting a specific pathway that exists in plants and a type of bacteria (eubacteria), but not animals (or humans). In terms of short-term exposure, glyphosate is less toxic than table salt. However, it is chronic, or longterm, exposure to glyphosate that’s causing the controversy. Cancer is not confined to Nyandarua county, but is wreaking havoc in Murang’a, Nyeri, Meru, Embu, Nakuru, Kitale and Eldoret, among other agricultural regions in Kenya.  In February 2018, for instance, Governor Mutahi Kahiga launched a free cancer screening facility at Nyeri county Referral Hospital. Besides the high usage of weed killers in the county, some farmers in Nyeri are spraying onions with weed killers to dry them quickly so that the entire crop is harvested and transported in one shipment, thereby saving costs.   “The public will be shocked to know that this practice is applied elsewhere to dry up wheat and barley right before harvest,” says Mwangi. “Is glyphosate in weed killers responsible for increased cancer cases in Nyeri ?” asks Mwangi. In June 2015, Meru county started a cancer awareness programme after it was noted that 15 per cent of all cancer cases referred to Kenyatta National Hospital were from Meru. At the time, the county government was planning to build a Sh700 million Cancer Treatment Centre. The rate of cancer centres that have also cropped up in Eldoret is shocking. This is collaborated by the Head of Oncology and Physiotherapy at Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in Eldoret who reported that cancer cases were rising at alarming rate in the area, with 5,000 cancer referral cases annually since 2016. The hospitals in farming regions have something in common:  they are overwhelmed by new cancer cases. Eldoret produces cereals including wheat, barley and maize. Weed killers are used heavily here to control weeds in wheat and maize farms. “Are glyphosate-based weed killers responsible for the rise of cancer in Meru and Eldoret too?   It is indisputable that cancer is on the rise in Kenya,” says Mwangi. Mwangi is behind a drive to establish the relationship between use of the killer weed glyphosate and cancer outbreak in Kenya’s’ farming areas. “Expanding hospitals, buying equipment, drugs and cancer screening campaigns is okay.  But the tragedy is this is done at the behest of multinational drug and equipment suppliers keen on making a kill from the spread of cancer.We only focus on cancer equipment and centres when the world of science elsewhere is pointing to the obvious suspect,” says Mwangi, in a survey titled Is Weed Killer Killing You Instead?. In 2015, Germany’s Federal Institute for Risk Assessment suggested glyphosate was neither mutagenic nor carcinogenic.  Then came the IARC’s surprising classification and the subsequent 2015 review by the European Food Safety Authority, that concluded glyphosate was unlikely to pose a carcinogenic hazard, which didn’t alleviate sceptics.