Donn Jowlz is a rapper from Diani in Kenya’s South Coast, who has managed to rise up the ranks to score music-recording deals in Nairobi. Gearing up for his first album, he chats with Alfayo Onyango You’re currently touted as the best rapper from the Coast region. How do you deal with the pressure? I simply write. The pressure I get from the numerous eyes that have been on me since 2018 can easily make you panic and when you panic you give substandard music. But if I decide to take that pressure and redirect it as a creative energy source for my craft, then I’m at a better position than someone who just shuts down. How did your collaborations with Khaligraph Jones and Phy come by? Jones picked me from an online rap challenge dubbed ‘Omollo Challenge’ after I put a verse on his Omollo song. I secured two features with him in Khali Cartel 1 and Work. With Phy, it was my manager Tim Rimbui of Ennovator Music (where Phy and I are signed at) who asked if I could put a verse on Phy’s song Power, which I did. The song set me apart from other rappers because it saw me not just doing street rap, but also introduced me to a totally new crowd of pop lovers. It also gave me a better understanding on how to put more soul into my raps if I wanted to make myself bigger than just rap or trap. When are you releasing your much-publicised album? All I can say is good things happen, but great things take time to happen. I’ve been working on the album for close to nine months and it will drop real soon. But trust me when I say the process of its creation has totally been worth it. Are you also working with singer Fena Gitu? We’ve already created something that is going to shock the whole continent, if not the world. It’s actually coming sooner than you think. What are some of the sacrifices you’ve made to get to where you are? The list of things I did to get here is quite long. From getting three day jobs just to fund my studio sessions even when I knew I wasn’t going to cash out from it immediately, to long nights of endless writing to find my sound and create more content and forgoing meals to save up for social media promotions. It’s such moments that have shaped me into this product that I am and I thank God. Growing up, did you always want to be a rapper? Without a doubt, I have always wanted to do music. I knew I wanted this from a young age because I would see my mother, who is a member of church choir, sing and create hymns and I slowly picked up from what she did. I would try finding my vocals and I even took the role of choirmaster at our church at about six years of age. I fell in love with rap when I was 10 years old and I haven’t looked back. What is your long time game plan? I want to be a leader. It sounds cliché, but I don’t just want to make music. I want to create hit songs that will create a timeless feel for all my fans, young and old. I want to give other artistes a better understanding of how to manoeuvre the industry and create a source of income off their talents and hope that whoever I touch continues helping others the same way if not better. Besides music, do you have any other passions? Music has always been my passion, but on the side, I have always wanted to dive into food, transport or real estate business once I’m mentally and financially ready. Right now, I want to continue building myself into a world-class entertainer. What’s your preference between the Coast and Nairobi? I love both cities because of their distinct features. Mombasa is my home and it will forever hold the number one spot for me because it made me who I am. Nairobi on the other hand gave me the chance to open up my mind to newer possibilities and gave me that push I needed to fuse different cultures into whatever I create. What’s your final remark? I need anybody reading this to understand that Kenyan music is pure gold. Buy Kenya, play Kenya and keep on supporting Kenya. Lastly, Donn J is the newest wave and if you’re not on it, then what are you doing?