Zachary Ochuodho @zachudho Flamboyant Tanzanian business guru, philanthropist and author Reginald Abraham Mengi passed on yesterday while in Dubai at the age of 75 years. Estimated to be worth $560m (Ksh56.6 billion) by Forbes in 2014, Mengi had vast interests in manufacturing, mining and media. Through his conglomerate IPP Group, he owned 11 newspapers, radio and TV stations including ITV, East Africa TV, Capital TV, Radio One, East Africa Radio and Capital FM. Nation building He also had interests in Coca-Cola bottling, mining, consumer goods and owned a printing company, The Guardian Ltd which publishes the Guardian, Nipashe and Alaska magazines. His is a story of rags to riches having been born into a poor family near Mount Kilimanjaro in 1944. Mengi went on to study in Scotland before returning home to build the nation. He worked as an accountant before setting up a ball-point pen assembly plant which thrust him to riches. According to his company’s website Mengi started the IPP Group in the early 80s and has grown it to one of the largest private conglomerates in East Africa in three decades, employing more than 3,000 people. From the mid-1990s, through his media empire, Mengi changed the lives of many in Tanzania. With the country gradually changing from socialism, where media ownership was reserved for the state and ruling party, his outlets brought in a fresh approach to global news and entertainment in Tanzania. Acclaimed author To his credit he authored a book titled, ‘I Can, I Must, I Will’ which is considered one of the most powerful accounts of the story of Africa told through the life of one of its contemporary shapers. His death comes five months after he announced investments in IPP Automobile, a car assembly plant, and the mobile phone sector. In November last year, the billionaire signed a deal with a South Korean firm to establish a vehicle assembly plant at Kurasini by this September. According to a report by The East African, the $10 million (Sh1 billion) plant is a joint venture between IPP Automobile Company Ltd and Youngsan Glonet Corporation. The carmaker, targeting buyers from Tanzania, Rwanda, Kenya, Uganda, Zambia and Malawi, is expected to assemble around 1,000 vehicles per year and employ more than 1,000 people. “The industry will start to operate from this September.  Assemby will begin with three types of vehicles ranging from, commercial and construction trucks, buses and Sports Utility Vehicles (SUV),” he said in November last year. The man who weathered the tough media environment in Tanzania to set up a print and broadcast empire, is known to empower vulnerable groups in the East African country. Mengi is survived by his wife, former Miss Tanzania Jacqueline Ntuyabaliwe and four children. Mengi first wife, Mercy Mengi, died on October 31, 2014 at Medicinic Morningside Hospital in Johanesburg, South Africa, where she had been admitted to undergo surgery.  The couple had three children Regina, Rodney and Abdiel and got married in 1971. Mengi met his second wife Jacqueline in the UK where she was known as K-Lynn in BongoFleva circles for a music show. In several interviews, Mengi often described Ntuyabaliwe as a complete package. Love of his life While celebrating Ntuyabaliwe’s 39th birthday last year, the 75-year-old showered his wife with praise as a loving partner. The couple had twin sons. “My love, my darling wife, my best friend, the holder of the key to my life, it is always “better late than never”. Happy Birthday my baby. Thank you for giving me a reason to live. I love you like crazy,” he tweeted. Jacquiline responded with an assurance of her undying love for him. “This is so sweet hubby I love you so much. I could not have asked for a better man to be my everything.” Shortly before Mengi died, he posted a moving message to his wife saying: “Our wedding or our marriage was a match made in heaven, that’s why it’s so special.”