Amos Abuga @PeopleSports11 Sprinter Jared Momanyi heads to this weekend’s World Relays Championships in Yokohama, Japan hoping to finally step out of his fathers’ shadows. The 29-year-old Kenya Defence Forces officer, son of 1984 Olympics 400m runner James Atuti, wants to stand out in a year he has described as eventful. When he teams up with former national 400m champions Alphas Kishoyian, Aaron Koech, Maximilla Imali, Hellen Syombua and Maureen Thomas in the 4x400m Mixed Relay team, the inform sprinter is hopeful that Kenya will perform well. “Opportunities do not come easy and for sprinters, you must work twice as hard to be considered for national team selection. I have been in positions where I thought I was in contention for national team selection before but unfortunately was ruled out for lack of experience. Now I want to prove to everyone that I belong here,” said Momanyi, who was part of Team Kenya that won gold in the men’s 4x400m at the Africa Championships in Asaba, Nigeria last year. Disappointed that Kenya will not be fielding a team in the men’s 4x400m race in Yokohama, Momanyi, who has personal best of 45.13, is hoping Kenya will use to the chance to qualify for the World Championships slated from September 28 to October 6 in Doha, Qatar. Major problem “Baton handling has been a major problem for most of our teams in previous events and it is no surprise that the coaches have put emphasis on that department for most of the two weeks we have been in residential camp,” he added. Kenya will be represented in four categories at the biennial championships. The women’s 4x400m team has Nthenya Musyoki, Maureen Thomas, Neviah Michira, Everngeline Makena and Veronica Mutua while former national 100m and 200m champion Mike Mokamba is relishing the 4x200m men’s battle. Injuries “Injuries have delayed my career recently but I thank God I am fit and ready,” said Mokamba, who will team up with national record holder Mark Otieno, Dan Kaviasi and Samuel Chege. The newly-introduced 2x2x400m event has Ferguson Rotich, Collins Kipruto, Eglay Nalianya and Emily Cherotich. The team leaves the country for Yokohama this evening.