In October athletics journalists around the world could write story in the making as reigning Olympic marathon champion and four-time London Marathon winner Eliud Kipchoge takes another shot at running the distance in under two hours. Kipchoge, says his second attempt at the sub two in the project dubbed ‘INEOS 1:59 Challenge’ is achievable as he goes into the test loaded with experience from the first attempt. The Nike-organised first attempt, ‘Breaking2’ in 2017 saw Kipchoge, with the help of pacemakers on the Monza Formula One race track, run 2:00.25 to fall 26 seconds short of breaking the two-hour barrier. “In the first attempt I was like an amateur boxer who gets to the ring with little knowledge of what to expect. However, this time I am going into the challenge with a lot of experience from the ‘Breaking2’ project,” said Kipchoge. In his attempt to do what many, few years ago, thought was impossible, the 34-year-old will miss this year’s Berlin marathon. Last year he ran a brilliant race in Berlin to set a new marathon world record with a time of 2:01:39 in his victory. Focus “What separates this challenge from the last one is my mindset. I am preparing for this race knowing that my target is only 26 seconds away and so my mind is set on 1:59. After running in the Nike event, it gave me the drive to go for the record as no one had run a 2:01 before.  I know this can be done and that’s where all my focus is on now,” added Kipchoge. The project funded by Britain’s richest man, founder of chemicals group INEOS Jim Ratcliffe, who is reported to have watched Kipchoge in last week’s London Marathon from the pace car, will be run in a parklands circuit with fans as opposed to the first attempt that had no crowd. The world record holder has five months to prepare for the herculean task. The announcement was made earlier this week during a visit to the track in Oxford where Roger Bannister ran the first sub-four-minute mile 65 years ago. Ratcliffe said the event, for London, would need to be an iconic location that fulfils the performance criteria that’s flat and has a good surface. Brand ambassador Kipchoge was speaking during a welcome reception by Isuzu East Africa where he is the D-Max brand ambassador. Managing Director Rita Kavashe congratulated the marathon record holder for his exploits since their partnership in 2017 and for achieving new milestones every year since. “On behalf of the larger Isuzu EA community, we celebrate your well-deserved win at the 2019 London Marathon. Your resilience, consistency, strength and technique proved incredibly inspiring and mirrored the very values by which our company abides. I am proud to say that this brand partnership has surpassed our expectations. Eliud (Kipchoge) is indeed the right choice and brand fit for our company,” said Kavashe.