Politicians almost stole the thunder and the essence of the Labour Day by turning the event into a political rally. Unlike past events where matters relating to workers’ interests dominate, politicians drawn from the Opposition and the emerging “Kieleweke” team hijacked the event at Uhuru Park in Nairobi, grabbing the chance to bash their opponents. For the first time, more than 60 MPs graced the occasion, attracting accolades from the worker’s umbrella body supremo Francis Atwoli. The celebrations were momentarily disrupted by a group of youths who stormed the venue riding on boda boda chanting pro-Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko slogans. The youths donning T-shirts and banners bearing Sonko’s image caught security personnel offguard as the legendary “Vitimbi” crew was entertaining attendants. They later left the venue after being persuaded by the police. Sonko arrived late as the ceremony and sat behind the VIP dais only to be ushered onto the front row by Atwoli. But hell broke loose few minutes later when the boda bodas zoomed in hooting as the youths screamed and shouted. Perhaps bored by the non-events at the fete, a majority of the diplomats attending left after Atwoli finished his speech. Political statements took most of the time with even staunch defenders of the worker’s course, Atwoli and his Kenya National Union of Teachers colleague Wilson Sossion turning against their folk to join the politicians in their game. Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria who was present left the event in a huff and immediately tweeted, “I am at the Uhuru Park attending an ODM rally” in reference to the many Opposition MPs who addressed the event. It was the first time that politicians were given a chance to make speeches during the Labour Day event which is a national event marked globally. Those who addressed the event included, Opposition leaders Musalia Mudavadi, Kalonzo Musyoka, Moses Wetang’ula, Governor Sonko. Others were MPs Mishi Mboko and Joshua Kuttuny. The youthful Cheragany MP is a member of the Kieleweke team and used the opportunity to hit at those in the other faction of the Jubilee Party MPs known as “Tanga Tanga” team. Light moment However, there were light moments that moved the crowd including the hilarious remarks by Atwoli which are marked with humorous comments and crude jokes. He termed those opposed to President Uhuru Kenyatta’s war against graft as “washenzi”. And among the entertaining teams were legendary Lingala stars Faya Tess and Nyboma Mwandido who took t the crowd through their old numbers popular among partygoers. The popular “Atwoli band” was the toast of the day singing to the common Cotu tune of “Ni nani atakaekomboa Kenya” forcing the dignitaries to join them in the dance.