Irene Githinji @gitshee Safaricom chief executive officer Bob Collymore is among appointed as members to the National Cancer Institute board in the latest state appointments. Health Cabinet secretary Sicily Kariuki made the appointments via a Gazette Notice of May 6. Collymore will serve the Institute alongside renown oncologist David Makumi, journalist Mercy Oburu of Royal Media Services, who is also a cancer survivor and Dr Evangeline Njiru. Collymore has been battling cancer and even took a nine- month break in late 2017 from work to concentrate on his treatment. The institute coordinates all cancer control activities and is mandated to advise Health Cabinet secretary on priorities that should be accorded to cancer prevention and control in the country. In the same Notice, President Uhuru Kenyatta appointed former Murang’a Senator, Kembi Gitura as the non-executive chairperson of Kenya Medical Supplies Agency (Kemsa). Gitura will be at Kemsa for a period of three years effective May 6. Meanwhile, Treasury Cabinet Secretary, Henry Rotich has appointed former Mukurweini MP Kabando wa Kabando to serve as Board of Local Authorities Provident Fund chairman for three years. The President also appointed Amb Nelson Ndirangu as the Chairman of Competition Authority for a period of three years, effective May 6. Juvenal Shiundu is the new chairperson for the Kenya National Shipping Line for three years while Prof James Wabacha has been appointed to Kenya Veterinary Vaccines Production Institute for a similar period. Eng Stephen Ngare has been appointed as the National Housing Cooperation Chairman. Consumer Federation of Kenya (Cofek) Secretary General, Stephen Mutoro has also received a parastatal appointment and he will serve as a board member for Kenya Nutritionists and Dietitians Institute for three years. He was appointed alongside Dr Evayline Nkirigacha, who was appointed as the institutes’s chairperson as well as Korir Anjeline Jebiwott, Oscar Ayoma, Edna Waretho, Dr Joy Mugambi, Harriet Njiru, Dr Gideon Nguka and Purity Njoki Chege. Education Cabinet secretary, George Magoha appointed Prof Peter Nyamuhanga Mwita and Samuel Macharia Gatitu as members of National Biodiversity Authority.