Kenya Premier League (KPL) promotion contenders and leaders Wazito pushed on with mission to return to the big time with a 6-0 drubbing of troubled Green Commandos Friday. The Round 33 match that was played at Camp Toyoyo saw Victor Ndinya and Derrick Onyango bag a brace apiece with Joseph Waithira and Wilson Anekeya getting the other goals in a frenzied second half. Green Commandoes who are second from the bottom with only 24 points were disciplined inside the first half with only Onyango’s 45th minute goal for Wazito making the difference. They had more purpose and poise earlier on as they managed to keep the hosts at bay. However, their goalkeeper Bills Kwendo was busy as he kept off shots from the marauding Ndinya and Waithira even as their attempts at the opposite end through Evans Odhiambo and Phillip Ouko hardy troubled Wazito custodian Steve Njunge. In the second half, the visitors literally collapsed with two goals scored inside three. Waithira raced onto a clever back heel cross by Onyango to net home from close range in the 46th minute and two minutes later the right back Anekeya lobbed a stranded Kwendo from around 20 yards for the third goal which sent the bench into frenzy. The shambolic defending from the Kakamega-based side continued with Victor Ndinya heading home a loose clearance off a Wilson Anekeya cross in the 59th minute and five minutes later Onyango got his brace. It was not through for Green Commandos as a hungry Wazito got its sixth through Ndinya who rounded off the opposing Kwendo who looked gutted with his defenders. It was Green Commandos single heaviest defeat this campaign. Speaking to PD Wikendi, an elated coach Fred Ambani suggested his players played to instruction through high pressing. “We knew they loved to knock the ball so the only trick was to pin them at their own half and wait for the mistakes. Points are crucial for us and we did justice today with sublime football,” he said. Meanwhile second-placed Kisumu Allstars beat visiting Coast Stima 1-0 courtesy of John Oruko’s second half strike at Moi Stadium. The victory was the lakeside outfit’s 19th inside 33 matches and puts them in prime position for promotion. Elsewhere Bidco United beat Modern Coast 3-0 at Thika Stadium to move to sixth on 55 points. Michael Owino had a brace while Nelson Chieta completed the rout later on.