Noah Cheploen, Felix Yegon and Philip Yegon @PeopleDaily County governments are questioning the viability of the leased medical equipment deal struck three years ago. Although the machines have come in handy in tackling life-threatening diseases such as cancer and kidney problems, questions are being raised about the attendant huge financial implications. County governments say  they are not getting value for money, arguing that the seven-year deal has left a gaping hole in their budgets with each county having paid more than Sh400 million so far. A spot check also showed that some of the equipment are lying idle because counties do not have the expertise to  operate them. Some counties cannot also hire the right personnel because of budgetary constraints. Cheaper in market In an interview with People Daily, Baringo County Chief Officer for Medical Services Gideon Toromo said that while all the equipment at Kabarnet Referral Hospital and Eldama Ravine District Hospital were in use, they are too costly. “All the equipment are in use but if you ask me about the payments, I will tell you it is much cheaper in the market,” Toromo, a surgeon, said. He said a total of Sh400 million had been deducted from the allocation the county gets from the National government since 2016. Nakuru County Executive Member for Health Kariuki Gichuki said he was not in a position to comment on the viability of the scheme. “Kenyans will decide if there is value for money. That’s not for me to say,” he said. A survey by People Daily in Nakuru town revealed that patients are still being referred to private laboratories for X-Ray and MRI services either because the machines have broken down or because of lack of personnel. Dialysis cost The renal unit has 49 dialysis centres and can handle 2,500 patients. Using the MRI machine costs only Sh10,000 compared to Sh40,000 in private facilities. Bomet CEC for Health Joseph Sitonik said that although they support the deal because it is going to benefit Kenyans in the long run, the issue of costs needs to be addressed. “As a county, we have no problem with the leasing of the equipment. Our only  concern is the cost which keeps rising and affects our budget,” he said. Renal unit At the Kericho County Referral Hospital, deputy medical superintendent Jane Tum said  all the equipment is functional and the hospital has enough personnel to operate them. She, however, said she was not in a position to disclose the amount the county is paying for the equipment. In 2016, President Kenyatta  launched programme worth Sh725 million under the controversial Medical Equipment Services (MES) programme.  They included a renal unit, theatre, expanded Intensive Care Unit and Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).