Pascal Sala Nigerian singer-songwriter Tiwa Savage has inked a global recording agreement with Universal Music Group (UMG). The deal will see her future music released internationally through UMG’s operations in more than 60 countries worldwide. Universal Music Group in a statement announcing the agreement on Thursday, May 2 said it will market and promote Tiwa’s future songs and to improve the singers global crossover. “We are looking forward to partnering with Tiwa and her team to help her music reach new audiences around the world,” Adam Granite, UMG’s EVP Marketing Development, said “As one of Africa’s most successful, influential and dynamic singer-songwriters, Tiwa has truly global ambitions and UMG is committed to help her in achieving them,” Granite added. Tiwa after signing the agreement said its an honor and opportunity to make afro-beat music known globally. “It’s like a dream, but more importantly it means I’m part of a legacy—I’m part of a huge engine and it’s definitely an honor to have an artist like me from Nigeria doing afro-beat music, which is still fairly new to the rest of the world, and it’s exciting,” she said in an introductory interview with UMG. “My biggest goal is to make Africa proud. I’m so excited for this moment and I’m thankful to Sir Lucian Grainge and my new UMG family for their belief in my dreams. I’m looking forward to this next chapter in my career and I’m more ready than I have ever been,” she added. According to the agreement, Tiwa’s Projects is to be executively produced by Efe Ogbeni of Regime Music Societe and Vannessa Amadi-Ogbonna. Tiwa who has parted ways with Mavin Records after 7 years, becomes the first afrobeat female star to sign a global recording deal. Head of Mavin Records and Tiwa’s longtime collaborator Don Jazzy took to Instagram to congratulate her “It’s been an epic journey with you and we are very proud of what we have achieved together. As you start this new chapter in your life we want you to know that we are solidly behind you and can’t wait for the world to see what we have always believed you can be. Your jersey as the First Lady of Mavin will forever be yours as we do not intend to fill that position with anyone else,” reads Jazzy Instagram post. The afro-beat music star was born in Lagos, Nigeria, and later received a scholarship to study Professional Music at Berklee College of Music in Boston, Massachusetts before embarking on a music career that has seen her achieve creative success in the entertainment industry. Tiwa won the Best African Act by the MTV European Music Awards in 2018, making her the first female to win the award. She also became the first African female to sell out London’s IndigO2. In the same year, Tiwa was handpicked by Coldplay’s lead singer Chris Martin to perform alongside Beyonce, Ed Sheeran and Jay Z live at the Global Citizen Festival in Johannesburg to a 70,000 strong audience and millions across the globe in celebration of the centenary of Nelson Mandela’s birth. Tiwa joins South African rapper Cassper Nyovestat, who signed with UMG back in 2018.