Masterpiece King is a fast-rising Kenyan teen gospel and fashion star. He has an edgy street look and an endless love for jewellery. He chats with Grace Wachira Grace Wachira @yaa_grace When did your fashion journey begin? It began way back. Ever since I was a kid, I have always loved to look good. I can’t really point out the exact time, but I generally like to look and feel good. As a teen fashion idol, what do you think your role is as far as fashion and looking good is goes? As far as fashion is concerned, I think my role has been to show that you can be a young gospel artiste and still look stylish and trendy. It does not water down the message of the Cross. I also do not think that judgement should be passed according to what one wears. I am young and I love looking good and if it helps my audience to relate with me as a youngster, then that’s even better. What would you say is your most fashionable moment? It’s hard for me to narrow down to one particular event. That’s a tough one because on a daily basis, I ensure I look good and inspire someone with my style; it’s an everyday affair for me. So, everyday is a fashionable moment to me, although I exceptionally like putting in more effort when dressing up for red-carpet events. If money was no object, what would you get your hands on? That’s an easy one. I would definitely get more jewellery… Ha-ha-ha. I love the shine plus jewellery is an accessory I always has to have on me. Is there a designer’s closet you’d kill for? To be honest, no. I like to create my own looks by pairing up pieces. Since I am the one who styles myself, it sounds selfish but for now, I follow my instincts. I’d probably say that from time to time, I check out how other artistes from the West dress and get some inspiration out of it. In your honest opinion, what should every man have in his closet? Every guy should have a good jewellery pieces in his closet. They could be watches, chains or bracelets, but they have to be authentic. No fakes please. If Masterpiece wasn’t an artiste, who would he be? I think he’d have taken up a very studious profession like engineering or medicine. I know he’d take up something that needs a lot of reading. I particularly love reading. Talk to us about your hairdo stunts. I am really just trying to see what style works. Also, since we only live once, I try to be experimental in my fashion and that includes the hair. I know I’ll stick to one later after I have tested and tried the waters. Right now, I am loving my blonde locks. What can we never miss in your bag or closet? Authentic cologne never misses in my closet or bag. I love smelling good. What is your definition of a good-looking man? I think a good-looking man is one who takes care of himself, visits his barber often and always cleans up well.