The Kenya Medical Research Institute (Kemri) has completed a trial research on whether there is a link between the use of contraceptives and increased risk of HIV infection. The 36-month research dubbed “Evidence for Contraceptive options and HIV Outcomes (ECHO)” was conducted on 901 women aged between 16 and 35 in Kisumu. The study enlisted 6,928 participants from 11 other  study centres in South Africa. Kisumu ECHO co-ordinator Imelda Wakhungu said the study was commissioned in December 2015 to stem rumours generated by the observation studies over the relationship between the use of hormonal contraceptives and high risk of HIV infection. The study, she said, was to compare the link between the use of three highly effective, reversible methods of contraception and increased risk of HIV Infection. “The research was initiated based on observation studies dating over 25 years ago that brought about confusion as some said there was a link between the two while issues while others disagreed. Our main objective was to clear the confusion,” said Wakhungu. The criteria for selecting participants included willingness to commit to the programme, stay within the study area throughout the trial period, unwillingness to get pregnant during the study period. To compare the risks of HIV acquisition between the women, they were randomly put on levonorgestrel (LNG) implants, Copper IUD’s and Depo-MedroxyprogesteroneAcetate(DMPA). “We had a randomised system to administer the contraceptives and had participants coming to the clinic for checkups and monitoring, in case of any problems we had a backup gynecologist who helped us manage patients who were experiencing side effects,” said Wakhungu. The coordinator said the study was also aimed at determing how pregnancy rates compared between the different contraceptives and to determine their side effects. The results that will be released in July are expected to spell out rumours that have surrounded the issue at the same time shape formulation of policy. “Through the results, we hope to give as much information as possible to participants, stakeholders and policy makers so the information can be used in policy making,” she said. More than 150 million women worldwide use modern methods of contraception. Given the spread of HIV epidemic, it has become important to explore HIV risk factors, including whether there is a link between use of specific contraceptives and HIV infection.“This study is designed to fill this critical knowledge gap to help address this key public health issue,” she said. 