George Kebaso @Morarak A multi-stakeholders technical committee has been formed to investigate budget anomalies that have hit more than 10 counties, leading to losses worth billions of shillings. It will comprise the Auditor General (chair), Integrated Financial Management Information System (IFMIS) Directorate, Council of Governors and County officials. The team is tasked to identify who spent the money highlighted in the audit reports after the Auditor General and Controller of Budget’s office dismissed claims that money was lost. Spend money The committee pledged to get to the root of the matter even as Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru protested allegations that her county spent money on “State House affairs”. CoG chairman, Wycliffe Oparanya said the committee was expected to provide recommendations that would lead to a solution. The committee’s terms of reference include an urgent forensic audit of the IFMIS System housed at the National Treasury. “We have committed to get to the root cause of this mess, and since the county governments did not spend the money, who spent the money? Is someone somewhere syphoning counties’ funds through fake entries? This is utmost fraud that needs to be unearthed,” Oparanya said. Yesterday’s consultative meeting recommended that the review of the government’s standard accounts be fast-tracked to provide for County governments specific programme and sub-programme codes. Oparanya said CoG had concluded there was no money spent on the said National government highlighted budget lines. He said budgets appropriated at the county levels were well defined and do not have conflicting programme codes with the National government programmes. “Indeed at our meeting today, the Office of the Auditor General confirmed that during their audit, the budget lines in question were not part of the individual counties budget lines. Budget lines In equal measures, the Controller of Budget also confirmed that there were no budget lines from the respective County governments budgets on the alleged allocations from the copies of the respective County budgets in their possession,” the Kakamega governor said. His county is one of those whose expenditure shows similar anomalies in budget execution through IFMIS Programmes and Sub-Programmes codes in the IFMIS system. The other counties whose IFMIS expenditure reports were extracted for audit include Kitui, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Laikipia, Kwale, Garissa and Lamu. “We urge the Senate to withhold any Senate appearances until this matter is conclusively resolved. The Senate should spearhead the process leading to the forensic audit of IFMIS,” Oparanya said. The developments come after the release of the Auditor General’s report on County expenditure. 