Most low-income earners  are turning to small investment clubs popularly known as chamas to survive the hard economic times. Scolastica Odhiambo of the Department of Economics at Maseno University says people in slums are mobilising in small merry-go-round groups as a way of saving. Odhiambo says the merry-go-rounds are used as a means of savings in what is called “social resilience through social capital”. “You have a person earning Sh300 daily, has a family and needs to pay rent. It, therefore, becomes necessary for them to look for like-minded people  with whom they can pool their little resources to help them get through,” she said. People with low incomes have also contributed to the emergence of the so-called “kadogo economy”, where goods are sold in small packages. “These are usually daily purchases since a majority cannot afford to buy them in bulk,” said, Odhiambo, adding that it is the only way low income earners can survive. Although it may appear cheaper, a World Bank study has shown that cumulatively, low income earners end up paying more than the middle and upper income class for a similar units because of the “kadogo model”. Associate professor at School of Business, University of Nairobi Bitange Ndemo says people in informal settlements are also sharing costs, including houses to survive. As for clothing, Ndemo says second hand wear, which can be obtained for as little as Sh20 a piece, ensure that most urban poor can have clothes on. Odhiambo says government interventions, such as free primary and affordable secondary education in public schools, are meant to ensure people in the low-income bracket retain some money in their pockets. But Ndemo argues free education has failed to cushion Kenyans from economic shocks because the government has focussed more on affordability instead of availability. “Schools where people living in slums like Kibera took their children have been taken over by the middle class. That is why Olympics Primary and High school are overpopulated, thus affecting quality,” he said. People in the low income bracket have particularly been affected by the rising inflation.  Latests statistics show that inflation rose to 6.6 per cent in April, up from 4.35 per cent the previous month.  The Kenya National Bureau of Statistics cited rising food and fuel prices for the climb.