James Magayi @magayijim Newly crowned World U20 Cross-Country champion Beatrice Chebet faces baptism by fire when the 2019 IAAF Diamond League guns off in Doha, Qatar tomorrow. Chebet is in the fray for perhaps the biggest race of her career going by the entry list containing the who-is-who in women’s middle-distance running. And rightly in cognisance of the race’s magnitude, organisers of the Khalifa International stadium jamboree slotted the women 3,000m race as the final item of the meet. The 19-year-old must do better than pulling a narrow, contestable victory over her age group peers to claim victory in Doha as the race teems with record breakers, gold medallists and seasoned winners to leave anything to chance. From red-hot Hellen Obiri to Ethiopia’s serial record breaker Genzebe Dibaba and myriad other athletes with greater decorations than Chebet’s, the final race in Doha promise an explosive start to athletics track season. “I do not fear racing with anyone although there is still a long way for me to go. I just want to work hard and achieve the most I can going forward,” an emotional Chebet mused over her season’s plan. It could boil down to Obiri versus Dibaba as envisaged by many but there is no discounting the rich field comprising 3,000m steeplechase record holder Beatrice Chepkoech, former world champion and Olympic silver medallist Hyvin Kiyeng, former World Cross Country winner Agnes Tirop, former 3,000m junior silver medallist Lilian Kasait, Continental Cup winner Winny Chebet and a host of other decorated runners from Kenya and Ethiopia. Good performance Not to mention Kenyan-born Turk Yesemin Can who is itching to pay back her adopted country with good performance. Obiri stands tall with the fastest time over the distance at 8:20.68 with Dibaba second on 826.21. Doha will definitely present a colourful spectacle as athletes scramble for glory, points and money. The 5,000m world champion is modest and firm in her aspirations, watching not to bite more than she can chew. “I am glad my season started off with a gold medal. It’s like a springboard for greater things although I must be very careful on how I progress. World Championship years are usually very tricky if not handled well so I’m going to test myself in Doha to see how my recovery has been and to gauge how the season will pan out,” Obiri offered. Kenya’s diminishing might in the women two-lap race is bare for all to see as only two athletes are entered in the women 800m in Doha. World bronze medallist Margaret Wambui Nyairera and the industrious Nelly Jepkosgey are the only names in a Castor Semenya-less 800m duel. Grappling with IAAF and testosterone level cases, the South African opted out of the shorter race leaving women with lower levels of the hormone to compete. There are reports suggesting that Burundi’s Francine Niyonsaba equally has elevated levels of testosterone but she is in Doha as the top dog. Spirited final Wambui will have to contend with Niyonsaba and America Ajee Wilson who ran a spirited final to win bronze in the last world championships ahead of Nyairera. Niyonsaba and Wilson are the only athletes with 1:55 finishes in 800m while Nyairera, Ethiopian Habitam Alemu and Jamaican Natoya Goule have mastered 1:56 performances.