Anthony Mwangi and Hillary Mageka @PeopleDailyKe At least 10 counties are paying over Sh200 million a year for medical equipment they have never used, putting the Sh38 billion leasing scheme in the spotlight. Lamu, Mandera, Tana River, Wajir and West Pokot are among counties where the programme initiated by the National government four years ago remain unused, reportedly due to lack of qualified staff and inadequate water and electricity. Theatre equipment are functional in only 92 out of the 96 earmarked hospitals.  Counties where the expensive facilities remain idle include Busia, Elgeyo Marakwet, Samburu and West Pokot, where they are also not serviced. Gathering dust A spot check in hospitals in 10 counties revealed that most of the equipment delivered are gathering dust in stores. Out of the counties People Daily visited, it was only in Baringo, Bomet and Kericho where the equipment were in operation. In four hospitals in Kakamega and Vihiga counties, some of the equipment for which installation payment is being remitted are yet to be delivered or  just recently arrived. In Trans Nzoia, the equipment delivered to Kitale County Referral Hospital are functional, but those at the Endebess sub-county hospital do not work because of skills challenge and lack of power (see separate stories). In Nyamira, the installation of theatre and renal equipment at the  county referral hospital and Keroka sub-county hospitals are yet to be done  since 2015 when the project was mooted. Council of Governors chairman Wycliffe Oparanya now claims the Managed Equipment Services (MES) deal is shrouded in a web of opaque and mysterious contracts between the National government and suppliers. He said counties “have never seen” the agreement the government signed with the  supplying firms in 2015. The Kakamega governor wondered why the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI), Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) are not probing the Sh38 billion programme. “We have talked about this scam in the making but no action is coming from these offices. We  have been  asking for these documents over years, but they have not been provided to us,” said the CoG chair. He also raised concern over amount of money counties are paying for the equipment. For instance, Oparanya disclosed that the cost of a CT Scan machine under MES programme is Sh150 million yet it goes for an average of Sh60 million in the market. “Why should a county government get a CT scanner at such high prices? When we ask about the documentations of this scheme, everyone goes mum. We must find a way to deal with the massive theft of public resources,” he said in an interview with People Daily. While  acknowledging that governors had signed an MoU with Health ministry to store and accommodate the equipment, he said no agreement was signed regarding how much was to be paid. Initial contract Oparanya said the collective cost of the equipment for counties has varied over the years-—the initial contract was for Sh3.8 billion annually but it was later increased to Sh4.5 billion, to  Sh6.1 billion and finally to Sh9.6 billion. Auditor General Edward Ouko has already raised the red flag over the leasing programme through which the Health ministry contracted a number of international firms to supply, install, maintain and replace medical equipment in counties under a leasing agreement. In return, counties would be deducted Sh200 million each year. “Despite millions of shillings allocated to counties being deducted at source, some devolved units are yet to fully realise benefits of the Sh63 billion Medical Equipment Services (MES) programme,” reads the auditor’s report for financial year ending June 2018 for Uasin Gishu, Turkana, Vihiga and Nandi counties. “A physical verification of the leased equipment revealed that it had not been utilised in a number of counties.” Last week, senators voted to discontinue funding for the Sh38 billon initiative, throwing the scheme into disarray. The lawmakers slashed the Sh6.2 billion allocated to the counties for the programme, saying it is shrouded in mystery. Meanwhile, a businessman moved to court last week seeking to have the suppliers of the equipment surcharged. In his affidavit, Daniel Muoki  says the award of tender to Shenzhen Mindray, Biomedical Electronics Company Limited, Esteem Industries of India, Belico SRL (Italy) and Philips Medical services, General Electric of US   for the sale, supply and maintenance of medical equipment under the MES was unconstitutional and, therefore, null and void. “The ministry has never given the actual cost of the equipment being supplied; whether the process of procurement was conducted through competitive bidding; the number of companies that bid for the tender; cost of constructing facilities for the installation of the equipment as well as the cost of maintenance and repair of the said equipment,” said Muoki. The government has  repeatedly  defended its decision to centrally procure diagnostic equipment for counties under the medical equipment lease plan. In July, 2018, the Health ministry said it had doubled the cost of the programme to cater for additional items and technology to link them up. The announcement sparked outcry from governors after the ministry failed to name or disclose the additional equipment benefiting hospitals and the kind of network technology involved. The cost was varied and the 47 counties were required to pay Sh9.4 billion or Sh200 million each annually for leasing equipment. “Increase in the yearly county allocation was because there was a need to buy additional equipment as a result of an increase in demand by hospitals” the then Health Principal Secretary Peter Tum told a parliamentary committee. While appearing before Senate Finance and Budget Committee on April 23, Governors Anyang Nyong’o (Kisumu), Paul Chepkwony (Kericho) and Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega) urged Senate to form a select committee to probe the deal they said had been forced on them.