Kinyuru Munuhe @kinyurumunuhe The Kenya Editor’s Guild (KEG) has unveiled a four-point action plan to improve professionalism in the media industry. In a statement to mark the World Press Freedom Day issued in Naivasha  Friday, KEG  called on authorities and other stakeholders to deal with  issues threatening journalists to safeguard media independence. The editors cited undue influence from commercial interests and the government, targeted attacks to media practitioners and media houses, unethical practices and delayed legal and policy reforms as key threats to the media. “There are interests, some government, some political, some commercial that are hell-bent on exploiting these systemic challenges to undermine media freedom,” KEG President Churchill Otieno said. The editors singled out over-reliance on government advertising, harassment of journalists and unethical behaviour as the major threats to media in Kenya. “The Government Adverstising Agency was created in controversial circumstances as a clearing house for all public sector ads. Today, it has morphed into a master switch that can and has been abused. It is arguably single–biggest threat to editorial independence and sustainability of the media as we sit here today,” said Otieno. He spoke during a two-day stakeholders’ workshop organised by the Media Council of Kenya to take stock on media progress in the country. Otieno observed that although the Kenyan media has remained robust over the years and managed to generate resources internally to support journalism growth, a reliable source of revenue has remained a challenge. “Therefore, the question of how to fund journalism is an existential one that cannot be left to the media alone. The advertising-funded model of journalism is broken and we must work hard and fast to find new ones,” Otieno said. He called on the media to find ways to ensure government advertising drives development of the industry as opposed to being a poisoned chalice. Otieno said it was regrettable that media practitioners continue to suffer physical and psychological arm in the line of duty. “A number of them suffered psychological trauma and physical injuries, which could have long-term effects. Our women colleagues have particularly suffered on this score as they also face sexualised attacks from online trolls,” said Otieno.