Mercy Mwai and Anthony Mwangi @PeopleDailyKe As the country celebrates Labour Day today, the 2019/20 Budget estimates presented to Parliament by National Treasury Cabinet secretary Henry Rotich have one clear message to Kenyans: Brace for tougher times ahead. And the reason for this belt tighten- ing is more taxation to fund President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda— Food security, manufacturing (mainly focusing on job creation in this area), affordable universal healthcare and affordable housing. The Rotich estimates also show a significant cut in borrowing to implement the Sh2.76 trillion budget as op- posed to last year’s projection of Sh3 trillion, which was later revised. However, to attain revenue targets, Kenya Revenue Authority(KRA)’s collections goal has been upwards to Sh2.1 trillion from the current financial year’s Sh1.8 trillion (revised) meaning the taxman could pile pressure on businesses and Kenyans to meet its targets. In total, National Treasury has allocated Sh450.9 billion for the Big Four, majority of which may not have a direct knock-on effect on mwananchi in the short term. The priority area is, however, likely to have little direct impact to the common man as majority of these projects are long-term, save for health- care and food security where impact could be felt sooner. “The funding to other priority programmes under education, infrastructure, energy and social projection will continue to be enhanced so as to achieve the targeted out comes,” Treasury said in a statement. To achieve Uhuru’s plan, Treasury has allocated Sh76.7 billion to the drivers of the Big Four agenda while Sh374.1 billion has been allocated to enablers. Some Sh96.6 billion was allocated to both drivers and enablers for the manufacturing cluster. Agriculture food security, water and irrigation Sh72.3 billion while Sh42.6 billion is for enhancing food and nutrition. The housing pillar, which is steeped in the 1.5 per cent tax levy for both employer and employee, has been allocated Sh11.4 billion with Universal Healthcare got Sh47.8 billion including donor funding. The manufacturing sector is also yet to make meaningful progress towards the Big Four as industries grapple with high cost of operations mainly on energy. Food security has been allocated Sh15.6 billion, Universal Health Care Sh 47.8 billion, provision of afford- able housing to all Kenyans Sh10.5 billion while the manufacturing sec- tor has been allocated Sh3.8 billion. Of the total allocation in UHC, free maternity healthcare will get Sh4.1 billion, Managed Equipment Services Sh6.2 billion, regional cancer centres Sh0.4 billion, vaccines and immunisations Sh3.3 billion, medical supplies to support UHUC piloting Sh2.5 billion, removal of user fees Sh0.9billion, transforming health systems for UHC Sh4.9 billion, cover for elderly and severely disabled Sh3.2 billion and scaling up universal health coverage Sh6 billion. Under affordable housing, social housing has been allocated Sh1 billion, construction of affordable housing Sh1 billion, housing Mort- gage Schemes Sh2.5 billion, National Housing Development fund Sh5 billion and Housing Units for police and Kenya prisons Sh1 billion. The affordable housing plan has run into headwinds twice since December last year after the Employment and Labour Relations Court stopped deduction of the 1.5 per cent levy, the most recent being last month. An area Kenyans are likely to feel an impact in the short term is agriculture where Sh0.6 billion has been allocated to smallholders dairy commercialisation. Others are irrigation programmes Sh 7.9 billion, debt to sugarcane farmers Sh 0.3 billion and the cherry coffer revolving fund which has been given Sh3billion, which will allow farmers access loans at an interest rate of three per cent.