Ruth Njuguna When it comes to social security in retirement, more attention is on formal employees who contribute through an employer to a registered pension scheme.  They, however, only cover a small part of the workforce. Kenya’s fragmented informal sector has led to sluggish economic growth despite its potential as a key contributor. The 2017 Economic Survey by the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics indicates the Jua Kali sector accounted for 83.4 per cent of country’s labour force and created over 787,000 new jobs in the period under review. The informal sector, however, remains excluded, unregulated and its potential  underestimated. The majority of aging workers have been left out of structured pension plans, leaving them with few options for safeguarding their health and wellbeing when they are frail and can no longer work. Currently, it is mandatory for all categories of workers to contribute to NSSF, but stakeholders have faced difficulties in collecting contributions from both employees and employers in the informal sector. Yet despite the challenges, stakeholders have made concerted efforts to accommodate all workers, even by providing a platform those in the informal sector can choose from 35 individual pension plans registered by the Retirement Benefits Authority or the Mbao Pension Plan sponsored by the authority in collaboration with the Jua Kali Association. Pension coverage is still low, exposing millions of citizens to poverty in old age. This points to an acute shortfall in existing social protection policies.  A renewed focus is, therefore, necessary to understand and address essential factors behind the underlying barriers hindering pension plans uptake in the informal sector. Lack of knowledge on the importance of pension tops challenges hindering uptake. Financial literacy is needed to raise public awareness of the benefits available to those eligible, which can potentially lead to increased pension coverage. Informal sector workers have no desire to participate in voluntary pension systems or even to comply with mandatory schemes because they find contribution and withdrawal terms too strict. Given their earnings tend to be minimal and fluctuate, it is necessary to provide them with flexible terms for withdrawals in specific circumstances to encourage them to participate in retirement plans. Providing monetary incentives is another way of encouraging pension participation by the informal sector. Current tax brackets, for instance, have remained a big burden to a majority of Kenyans going into retirement.  While the government has been designing various regulations to safeguard retirees’ benefits, exemptions are still low and the set 65 years of tax-free for pensioners is in most cases unattainable. With a majority of the country’s working population not saving for their retirement, we are looking at a potential crisis in caring for an aging population in the next few years. Securing income in retirement will become imperative as cost of living increases and people live longer due to better health care and living conditions. It is also important for the relevant informal sector umbrella bodies to begin sharing statistics of their members that will enable pension service providers to target new members.  Writer is manager, pensions administration and consulting at Enwealth Financial Services