Technology has triggered opportunities for the professional services industry to tackle challenges and grow their businesses while responding to diverse customer needs. British-born Tim Steel (pictured), CEO of Copia Kenya, dedicated to bringing e-commerce to underserved customers in rural and peri-urban areas, spoke to ALBERTO LENY at the firm’s facility at Tatu City. Here are excerpts. Q. How has your professional career transformed from a finance background to the transport and service industry and now a unique e-commerce business? A. My professional and management foundation resides on a desire to create social impact. I started my international career in 1990, running finances on a voluntary basis for the Salvation Army in East Africa for two years. I then joined TNT Express, the European leader in express transportation in 1992, heading up operations in Cyprus, Dubai, Southern Africa and Kenya, managing business turnarounds, building strong teams and achieving above market growth rates often in very challenging environments. Q. Has Copia Kenya made a significant contribution to the shopping and distribution sector and by extension economic growth in Kenya and the region and how? A. We are contributing to the economy through our 3,700 agents in the villages who earn commissions from the distribution work. This is money pushed in the rural economies. We also employ drivers and drivers’ assistants and train them to use technology delivery apps. We also lease delivery vehicles from the local community. Since 2013, we have created over 450 jobs, increased the income of our 3,700 agents in villages by 35 per cent and processed over two million orders for more than 300,000 customers. Q. What is the main difference between Copia Kenya’s e-commerce marketing strategy and that of the traditional sales and distribution companies? A. Nobody is doing what we are doing, transforming a historically neglected market, taking e-commerce to the people in the rural areas, from factory to customer in two days. We give e-commerce access to customers in villages with a choice and selection in a way and quality they never experienced before. We started with a strong belief that e-commerce should be accessible to  all  regardless of location, financial status and access to the internet. Q. What is the response, from the underserved low-income consumers and does Copia Kenya’s business model embrace inclusivity and equity for this huge market? A. The response has been great, and that is exactly why we were formed. We are serving consumers who were not previously served and had to travel to get goods. We now bring goods to the agent in two days. With two million orders and 300,000 unique customers, the numbers speak for themselves. We constantly measure our performance through net promoter score, regular focus groups and telephone surveys on products, pricing and service.