Martin Mwita and Alvin Mwangi @PeopleDailyKe Hundreds of workers afflicted by the high cost of living, who had trooped to Uhuru Park, Nairobi, expecting good news— a minimum pay hike— were a dejected lot as they walked back home empty-handed. Their hopes, which rested on the promise of the chief workers spokesman, Central Organisation of Trade Unions (Cotu) secretary general Francis Atwoli, were further dashed as it also dawned on them that Federation of Kenya Employers(FKE), the bakers of the cake they were expecting, had snubbed the international workers day. Territorial row At some point, the workers plight— wage increment, cost of living and job creation— appeared to have been subsumed in passionate speeches on the fight against corruption, Kenya’s territorial row with neighbours, growing national debt and 2022 succession politics. The absence of FKE, which came against the background of Cotu’s 15 per cent minimum wage hike and row on the proposed 1.5 per cent housing levy for both employees and employer, drew the anger of Kenya National Union of Teachers(Knut) secretary general Wilson Sossion, who termed it unfortunate. “It is a shame that FKE has boycotted today’s event…it is wrong for FKE to lead employers to boycott Labour Day,” he said. Atwoli, who led workers during the May 1 event, also accused the employers’ lobby group of frustrating employees, mainly on salaries and employment terms. “We are opposed to a request by Cotu (K) to the government on general wage increase in support for the proposed Housing Fund Levy,” FKE said on its twitter handle on April 30. FKE also came on the spot for dragging its feet in the implementation of the five per cent minimum wage increase promised by President Uhuru Kenyatta last year. “We got a five per cent increment last year. They lobbied for nine months, it had not been announced nor gazetted. It was, however, gazetted in January. What they wanted is to delay up to today and tell the minister not to increase salaries but rather gazette last year’s increment,” said Atwoli. Casual labourers Companies mainly in the telecommunication industry, agriculture and industrial sectors have further been accused of turning employees to permanent casual labours, a move that has left hundreds of thousands earning peanuts. “The government cannot increase the general wages except for public workers. Private workers’ salaries are determined through free and voluntarily negotiations between parties,” said Mark Obuya, chair FKE. Further, FKE said if salariesare increased at such a time, companies will have it rough when doing business Generally, employers, particularly in the private sector, have in recent times remained reluctant on increasing salaries as they decry the high cost of doing business in the country. This is mainly pegged on high costs of utilities such as electricity where currently, industries are paying between Sh11 and Sh21 per kilowatt hour (kwh). The tariff is much higher compared to neighbouring countries such as Ethiopia where tariffs are as low as Sh3 per kwh. Kenya Association of Manufacturers (KAM) has been pushing for tarriffs to go below Sh10 per khw to remain competitive, a price the government targets to achieve with the introduction of a rebate programme.