Fred Aminga @faminga National Treasury Cabinet secretary Henry Rotich wants Parliament to approve Sh3.5 billion payment to the controversial Kimwarer Multi-purpose Dam project contracted to Italian firm CMC Di Ravenna. The vote in the 2018/19 mini-budget under the integrated regional development vote saw the State Department for Regional and Northern Corridor Development gross supplementary estimates increase to Sh3.56 billion. Suspected loss The dam project, together with Arror Dam, have been on the spot for the suspected loss of Sh21 billion, which has seen the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) probe the two dams to be located in Elgeyo Marakwet county. Indications are that not much has been done at the site of the proposed dams despite initial payments being made. However, CMC Di Ravenna says it is ready to start work but unable to access the site after the DPP held 37 vehicles belonging to the firm in which Kerio Valley Development Authority allegedly misappropriated public funds for construction of the two dams valued at Sh65 billion. In a turn of events, the National Assembly’s Budget and Appropriation Committee chairperson Kimani Ichungwa protested the timing of the tabling of the estimates, saying that it is just weeks before the reading of the actual budget. In the second supplementary estimate this financial year, Rotich has also presented a Sh8.15 billion of which Sh6 billion was disbursed on February 22 for purchase of maize, compensation to sugar farmers and purchase of subsidised fertiliser for 2018/19 financial year. Treasury also presented for regularisation of Sh35.2 billion disbursed to the Nairobi-Mombasa SGR project as loan Appropriation-in-Aid (AiA). The money was used to finance operations, instead of waiting for disbursements from Exchequer. When this happens, the amount spent is deducted from approved budget. The Nairobi Sanitation project received Sh6.17 billion for the Nairobi water distribution, satellite towns, northern corridor and Ithanga Water Supply. Recurrent expenditure Salaries and Remunerations Commission got an extra Sh148 million as recurrent expenditure for shortfalls in operations and maintenance while Sh373 million for by-elections in Migori, Wajir, Embakasi South and Ugenya was also presented to Parliament. The cumulative revenue collections including AiA for the period July 2018 to March 2019 amounted to Sh1.18 trillion against a target of Sh1.28 billion representing a Sh97.7 billion underperformance. “This is mainly due to shortfall in income tax, import declaration form, railway levy, import duty and value added tax,” said the statement tabled to Leader of Majority Aden Duale.