How did you meet? Susan: We met at Kenhut SDA church in December 2009. We were both waiting for our KCSE results and were keeping ourselves busy with the church youth group. How did the friendship grow into a relationship? We used to meet four times a week for the youth choir practice. We would walk home together after the practice and that’s how we grew closer every day. One day after a social Sunday at the arboretum, he sent me a text asking for advice on how to go about telling a lady who is his friend that he loves her and wants to be in a relationship with her, but he is scared the he may lose the friendship. I told him to just tell her. Well, he told me later that it was me. After choir practice the following day, as we walked home, he asked me to be in a relationship with him. I told him I would think about it. We continued being close and inseparable that people thought we were dating. However, when asked, I used to agree, to stop the speculation. It was not until my third year in campus when we officially become an item. Was there any challenge during dating may be from church or home? We were inseparable, so most people, especially from church, thought we were having sex outside wedlock. We ignored the talk and continued our relationship. There were also people who would say that we have been dating for far too long and may end up wasting each other’s time. The pressure from people to get married was real. How did you deal with the pressure? Press the ignore button… We were young and not ready to settle down. I think we learned at a very early stage in our relationship to not allow the opinions of people to define how our relationship is to be run. Was there a formal proposal? There was no proposal really. In 2017, Evance told me he wanted us to tie the knot in 2018 and that he would start working on it seriously. We set the date and began planning towards it. We did an engagement shoot a month to the wedding and emulated a proposal in some poses. How was it planning the wedding? We did all the planning by ourselves then a week to the wedding, we got a group of friends with whom we are in an investment group to coordinate with suppliers on the D-day and pay balances. How easy or tough was it planning it all by yourselves? I would say that it was easier than most weddings I have been involved in, since the only opinion that mattered was his or mine. Most couples that get a committee to help them plan end up getting so many opinions that even choosing a supplier becomes an uphill task. Facebook wedding groups also lessened our work as we would check reviews of different service providers from past clients. What was memorable about your wedding? We danced. We had an ‘obokano’ guy and a band that ensured this. Were it not for time constraints, we would have danced some more. And the faces of people as they enjoyed themselves dancing are still so fresh. Obokano is a traditional Kisii music instrument. Anything that went wrong? The men’s tailor really disappointed us. I chose a certain shade of burgundy that I really loved and paid the deposit. Since we knew him and his previous work had been excellent, we didn’t bother checking on him a lot. Shock on us when we went to see the final product a week to the wedding… the suits were okay but the colour was off! I wept. Then, the day before the wedding, my husband and the best man went to pick their suits, which they had taken for some adjustments. Shock on them as the trousers were not only short but too tight. They had to go to Naivas at night to buy others. Also, we didn’t pack snacks for the kids to munch on during the photo shoot. They were so hungry, my niece was crying during the shoot. Parting shot? Try as much as possible to cover most if not all of your wedding expenses. Over relying on people might cost you. Pick things you are willing to spend on and let go of those you can do without.