The packaging and sale of expired food products exposed by this newspaper is a morbid development that portends peril for consumers. The syndicate comprises rogue importers and retailers who exploit gaps in regulatory mechanism and law enforcement regime to literally dole out death and disease from potential food poisoning. Tragically, the main motivation of these merchants of death is money; sick wealth that they flaunt as prosperity of their business acumen. The business of fakes is shifty, stealthy but ruthless— and it thrives because of connivance by rogue elements within the inspection and consumer protection agencies. For instance,  the latest raid on a godown in Kariobangi South,  the nerve- centre of fakes in country, was a testimony to the extent of the dark and deadly multimillion industry. Here, unscrupulous traders repackage goods, especially food items and offer them for sale, unbothered by the consequences. This is avarice in its rawest and crudest form to the detriment of consumers and economy. In some cases, rice, soft drinks, bread and wheat products — some which find their way into Kenya as illegal imports through porous or poorly policed borders — are repacked with new sell dates and offered as good fresh from the factory. This exposes consumers to dangers including food poisoning and other long-term health complications such as cancer and kidney failure. To stem the evil trade and protect the consumer, there is need for more vigilance by enforcement agencies and enactment of  consumer protection laws. It will also be critical to establish a well-resourced  consumer watchdog. In the meantime, the Kenya Bureau of Standards should up its game monitoring, especially at border points and even at points of sale. County authorities, which are the custodians of the health functions, should broaden their market surveillance systems and treat sale of fakes and expired goods as health emergency. And unless, there are conscious efforts to stem, if not eradicate, the deadly trade in fakes and expired goods and the consumers are at the mercy of death merchants operating as businesspeople. Finally, the government needs to invest in consumer education to save consumers. In the end, this scourge can be only eliminated through a conscious national drive hinged on integrity, fidelity to the laws and awareness.