Hillary Mageka and Githinji Mwangi @PeopleDailyKe Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru has formed a task force to  spearhead a clean-up of the ailing Kerugoya County Referral Hospital. The hospital has in recent past hit the headlines over its deplorable and unhygienic condition, resulting in an outbreak of diarrhoea and hepatitis. The taskforce comprises members from the County Health, Transport and Public Works and Environment departments and has 14 days to compile a comprehensive report and recommendations. She said the team will redeploy manpower to clean up and maintain standards of hygiene at the hospital within 72 hours. “I have further directed the Chief Officer for Transport and Public Works to ensure laundry services are restored immediately following the relocation caused by the ongoing upgrading and construction work at the hospital,” the governor said in a press statement yesterday. Blocked sinks An exposé aired by a local TV station on Saturday painted a picture of a sickly county referral hospital, marked by rotting garbage, undisposed hospital waste and blocked sinks. The situation at the hospital further compounded by water shortage, blocked toilets, heaps of unwashed linen and broken incinerator. Waiguru claimed the recent upgrade of facility has seen an overwhelming increase in the number of patients seeking treatment  at the hospital. This, she said, has stretched the hospital beyond its capacity, putting pressure on both staff and equipment. “I have, therefore, requested for the immediate procurement of a new incinerator and requested supplementary budget allocations to add more laundry machines to deal with the capacity issues occasioned by increased patient numbers at the facility,” said Waiguru. Sorry state Later yesterday, Kirinyaga Woman Representative Wangui Ngirici stormed the hospital and called on the National government to intervene to ensure it is functional. “The hospital is in a sorry state and I’m calling on the Health Cabinet secretary Sicily Kariuki to ensure the government takes  control of the hospital temporarily and manage,” she said. Accompanied by her supporters,  Ngirici threatened to mobilise residents for a protest if the matter is not addressed.