Irene Githinji @gitshee The government is in the process of cleaning up the payroll register for cash transfer beneficiaries, a move aimed at ensuring only rightful and deserving people receive the monies. Social Protection Principal Secretary Nelson Marwa made the remarks even as he warned agents and care givers against taking money channeled to beneficiaries, who have since died. The government said cash transfer beneficiaries have until May 18 to open bank accounts, where they will be receiving their benefits. They are expected to receive their monies later this month. Those who missed out in the January-February payout will have their disbursements backdated to receive Sh16,000, subject to Treasury’s approval, while those who received in the last cycle will get Sh12,000. The government is expected to pay beneficiaries for two cycles namely; March-April and May-June, as it prepares to close this financial year. Currently, the government spends more than Sh1 billion monthly to cater for 1.3 million beneficiaries. Each gets Sh2,000 monthly. “Cleansing of the payroll is underway, we would like to run a credible payroll on people who exist,” Marwasaid. Labour officials set out to help people living with severe disabilities to open their accounts even as Marwa warned unscrupulous individuals out to take advantage of beneficiaries of unspecified consequences. “I urge anyone, especially agents and care givers, handling cases of persons with severe disabilities to ensure money goes to them,” Marwa affirmed. In the last cycle, the government released Sh12.5 billion as direct payment to beneficiaries in three programmes under the Consolidated Cash Transfer Programme (CCTP). The Social Protection department, which handles the cash transfer programme, is working out a budget to present to the National Treasury to pay the over 1 million beneficiaries, who have since been moved from the previous card-based system to the current account-based one. The PS said phase three of the programme will include replacement of dead beneficiaries, based on the quota system. The money will remain in the beneficiary’s account for six months. Previously, they had only three weeks to take the money failure to which the government would recall it.