Pascal Sala Kenya Films Classification Board (KFCB) on Wednesday signed a memorandum of understanding with Kenya Universities Deans of Students’ Association (KUDSA) in support of Kenya School of Government (KSG) to identify, grow and promote talent among students and to take art to the communities. KFCB Chief Executive Dr. Ezekiel Mutua said on Twitter that the memorandum commits them to identify, nurture, document and promote students’ talents in the creative industry through an annual national universities theater and film festival where clean content will be churned out for the local film industry. The MoU was signed at the Deans of students’ conference that is ongoing at Kenya School of Government in Matuga, Kwale County. Mutua further added, the partnership also aims to develop a framework and set up mechanisms for the implementation of the Sinema Mashinani project within and around the university community so as to enhance the appreciation of and encourage consumption of clean content. Sinema Mashinani project is an initiative started by the films board to create awareness and advocacy for the creation and consumption of clean content through theater and film. Sinema Mashinani Program also seeks to identify and nurture talents at the grassroots by supporting creation, distribution and exhibition of films whose themes promote Kenya’s culture, moral values and national aspirations. The film board also said the partnership will boost its efforts in eradicating harmful cultural practices that inhibit community and national development. “#KFCBDeansFilmMOU with universities will increase sensitization and advocacy for interventions and partnerships aligned to sustainable development goals on partnerships towards eradicating harmful cultural practices that inhibit community and national development,” Mutua said. The collaboration will create opportunities for sustainable job creation and growth of the Kenyan creative economy through the commercialization of stage performances and films.