Stephen Mbugua Mwagiru and his mother Rosemary Wanja Mwagiru are set to be arrested for forgery, after the Appellate Court ruled on Friday in favour of international investors in the Sh240billion Tatu City project. Tatu City Ltd and its main subsidiary Kofinaf Company Ltd, which are majority-owned and controlled by American, British, New Zealand and Norwegian investors, convinced the Court of Appeal that High Court Judge Mumbi Ngugi should not have blocked the prosecution of the Mwagirus and lawyer Robert Githu for forgery and making false documents. Appellate judges Wanjiru Karanja, Patrick Kiage and Fatuma Sichale ruled that Justice Ngugi “was plainly wrong” and “committed a reversible error of law” when she shielded the trio from facing justice. “It was against public interest and offensive to the criminal justice system for accused persons to seek protection without demonstrating compelling reasons to justify exemption from prosecution,” the three-member Bench said in the 31-page judgement read by Justice Sichale. The two firms, represented by Senior Counsel Ahmednassir Abdullahi, were aggrieved by Justice Ngugi’s decision delivered on November 12, 2013 that  stopped the two-count indictment against the Mwagirus and the lawyer, on the basis that it amounted to an abuse of the court process. The Mwagirus and the lawyer allegedly forged a report by Assistant Registrar of Companies, Wilson Gikonyo, on June 11, 2010 that was used to register caveats on nine prime properties belonging to the firms. The Mwagirus had claimed to be the sole shareholders and directors of Tatu City Ltd, which was previously known as Waguthu Holdings (K) Ltd, and applied to block any transactions on the land. The appellate court ruling follows a landmark case in the London Court of International Arbitration, which ruled that Mwagiru and his partners, Vimal Shah of Bidco and former Central Bank Governor Nahashon Nyagah, defrauded the international owners of Tatu City. The court awarded Sh1.7 billion to the international investors. The Sh1.7 billion London court award and ruling on Friday confirmed Mwagiru’s assertions of owning Tatu City firm are false. Police are now expected to arrest him on criminal forgery charges. At Friday’s ruling in Kenya, Ahmednassir argued there were no valid reasons and justification to terminate the criminal case, which was instituted on December 6, 2010, since Justice Mumbi did not exonerate the accused persons from criminal liability regarding the contentious Companies Registry form used to register the blockade. The caveats were eventually removed administratively although the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) is at liberty to re-open the cases, he said. Ahmednassir recalled that Justice Fred Ochieng had dismissed an application by the three persons for conservatory orders on October 24, 2011 for lack of sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the DPP or the police were acting under the influence of interested parties in filing the criminal case. The Mwagirus ceased to be directors of Waguthu Holdings (now Tatu City Ltd) from March 4, 2009 and transferred all their shares, except one, to Cedar IV Ltd. Similarly, they resigned as Tatu City board members. Senior Counsel Kamau Kuria had protested that the criminal case was meant to coerce and intimidate the Mwagirus to withdraw two commercial disputes in which they were seeking the winding up of the companies. The DPP was working in cahoots with foreign investors to exert illegal pressure on the Mwagirus to remove the caveats, he had claimed. Kuria had maintained that Tatu City and Kofinaf firms had no right of appeal after the DPP had chosen to drop the case following the court’s intervention. “This is an academic exercise. The DPP works independently and has not filed an appeal,” he had said. EDS/MK/010/005/019