Alvin Mwangi Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) has interdicted 75 staff members over alleged involvement in activities that undermine the State agency’s mandate by abetting tax evasion and facilitating access to services through bribery and corruption. A police source confirmed on Friday that out of the interdicted staff, 41 were arrested and are being held at the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) headquarters for interrogation. “Following the KRA operation today, out of 75 suspects 41 have been arrested, phones and other electronic gadgets they used to commit fraud and theft confiscated and servers linked to their communication seized for forensic analysis. More arrests and recovery are anticipated,” said DCI boss George Kinoti. The offences in question include facilitation of irregular clearance of cargo, fraudulent amendment of tax returns to help tax payers evade taxes and irregular issuance of tax compliance certificates. Of those affected, six are from the Domestic Taxes Department and 14 from Customs and Border Control unit. Investigations into the rackets have been in progress for at least four months with covert assistance provided by law enforcement agencies to help in trailing communication. Affected officials have been detained for questioning and recording of statements as they await to be arraigned in court this month. The crackdown is part of KRA’s enhanced anti-corruption push, which has gained momentum with the full establishment of an Intelligence and Strategic Operations department, whose mandate includes combating tax evasion through promotion of ethical practices amongst staff. Further, the department is tasked to promote ethical conduct through creation of effective corruption prevention frameworks, staff sensitisation and the detection and investigation of corrupt acts. Its other roles include providing KRA support to National government initiatives  on corruption and crime eradication as well as combat cross-border criminal activities such as terrorism and money laundering. Part of the recent corruption interdiction activities within KRA have seen termination of employment for 85 officers in 2018, institution of 15 cases of life style audits, of which 3 have been completed and appropriate actions taken to implement the findings that included asset recovery and employment termination. Future plans will see intensified focus on life style audits with a goal of undertaking up to 50 such cases annually. At the same time, arrangements are in high gear to implement an electronics intelligence gathering system at KRA that is expected to be in place in the next three months. 