To reduce national debt, the government is implementing a consolidation plan which will reduce fiscal deficit to below four per cent of the gross domestic product (GDP) in the medium term. This will also help Treasury achieve a balanced Budget in the long run. To protect the country from external shocks while ensuring credit is still available to the private sector, Treasury will continue to balance its borrowing from domestic and external sources. This year’s budget has taken into account the borrowing plan in the 2019 Medium-term Debt Management Strategy and will be utilising and maximising official external sources for loans on both concessional and commercial terms as well as from domestic debt market through issuance of Treasury bills and bonds, with a bias towards longer-term debt issuance. Multilateral institutions Treasury, in its Budget summary for the fiscal year 2019/20, tabled in Parliament yesterday, said that in order to ensure debt sustainability, the government will continue to access commercial windows of multilateral institutions as well as Export Credit Arrangements. “These non-concessional and commercial returns loans will be limited to development projects with high financial and economic impact and in line with Vision 2030 and the Big Four agenda,” reads the report. Further, the government will ensure future loans from Development Partners have a 35 per cent grant element to ensure sustainability. Treasury and Kenya Revenue Authority will implement various measures under the Revenue Enhancement Initiatives Programme to boost revenue mobilisation. These measures will strengthen tax administration and compliance and expand the tax base as it seeks to unlock additional revenues. In addition, the modernised Income Tax Bill, which is currently undergoing legal drafting, will also ease administrative bottlenecks, improve compliance and boost revenue collection, thereby supporting fiscal consolidation efforts. Treasury bonds will be the main source of net domestic financing at 68 per cent and issuance of medium to long term benchmark bonds is recommended while Treasury bills will be used for cash management. On external borrowing Treasury is proposing concessional loans at 26 per cent, semi-concessional at eight per cent and commercial at four per cent. The government will aim at maximising the official external sources for loans on concessional terms even though this source is shrinking. Sukuk bonds As a way of diversifying its sources, the government will continue to explore non-traditional sources of financing including Islamic financing instruments such as Sukuk bonds, green bonds and diaspora bonds over the medium term. The government will continue to access commercial windows of multilateral institutions, maintain its presence in the international capital markets as well as continue using Export Credit Agencies to finance its development expenditures geared towards achievement of the Big Four agenda.