George Kebaso @Morarak Kenya is among three African countries set to benefit from International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) investment of $150,000 (Sh15.2 million) geared towards cleaning oceans of plastic pollution. Various initiatives in Kenya involved in marine cleaning will receive a total of $50,000 (Sh5 million) towards this plan which is expected to run for one year. “As part of its Marine Plastics and Coastal Communities project implemented in Kenya, Mozambique, South Africa, Thailand and VietNam, IUCN will provide financial support of up to $50,000 in each target country for a period of 12 months,” IUCN Regional director for Eastern and Southern Africa, Luther Anukur said in a statement. Circular economy He made the announcement when calling for proposals to support existing, small-scale circular economy initiatives that aim to reduce the amount of plastic leaking into the marine environment. The three-year initiative was launched in 2017 in Africa and Asia. Anukur said the proposals should demonstrate that the project fosters strong co-operation and co-ordination between various stakeholders including regulators, private sector, civil society across the plastic value chain. “This should also capture production, transformation, waste, leakage for enhanced plastic leakage reduction or avoidance; demonstrate how circular economy principles can be applied in practice and contribute to reduced  leakage of plastics into the marine environment,” he added. The proposals are expected to demonstrate lessons that would help others better develop sustainable plastic leakage reduction or avoidance measures. Supported by Swedish International Development Co-operation Agency (Sida), the initiative aims to reduce the amount of plastic pollution leaking into the marine environment in the five target countries. Interested parties This is done through four interconnected pillars namely; knowledge, capacity, policy and business. Interested parties have been given up to May 31 to submit their proposals.