Hillary Mageka @PeopleDailyKe Some MPs from the Coast region have opposed government’s  plans  to privatise the  Kenya Ports Authority (KPA). Kilifi North MP Owen Baya and Kwale Woman Rep Zuleikha Hassan said leaders from the region are opposed to the planned takeover of the port through the backdoor. “We are against the takeover proposal of the port which is not any different from privatising a national asset through the backdoor. There is no way a government asset will be handed over to a partly private entity without Kenyans being involved,” Baya told People Daily in an interview. “Coast residents have a historical and ancestral attachment to the port, it is their source of livelihood, the least the government can do is involve their leaders in any plans to change the way the port operates. This can be done through a substantive motion,” he added. Baya’s sentiments were shared by Hassan who cautioned that the scheduled arrangement may lead to massive job losses, insisting that the KPA management may have no authority or say in how the terminal will be managed and operated. “With the privatisation, the State will lose power, day-to-day decisions on issues such as employment will be out of their hands. This will hurt the thousands of port workers,” she said. A proposed amendment to the Merchant Shipping Act tabled in the National Assembly seeks to transfer cargo operations at the country’s second container terminal from the KPA to the Kenya National Shipping Line. Port operations The anticipated changes in law seeks to give the Cabinet secretary for Transport powers to dodge a provision that blocks a freight line from running port operations. The MPs spoke hours after members of the David Pkosing-led Transport Committee resolved to seek more time to interrogate the proposal, before the bill comes up  for debate. Yesterday, Pkosing confirmed to People Daily  that they had requested the National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale, who was the sponsor of the amendment bill, for more time. “As a House team, we had a feeling that the amendments had been rushed. We had not been given sufficient time to bring all stakeholders on board. We had not listened to elected leaders from the region and that is why we sought to be granted more time,” he said.