Amos Abuga @PeopleSports11 Two warring factions within the Kenya National Paralympics Committee (KNPC) have opened a new war front centred on the just-concluded Africa Paralympics Championships held in Marrakech, Morocco with one group accused of carrying joyriders to the north African country. KNPC president Agnes Oluoch has come under fire from a group led by secretary general Elijah Aliero which accuses her of taking more officials than athletes to the championships. Aliero claims 40 officials accompanied only 22 athletes to the championships where Team Kenya managed 42 medals (11 gold, 14 silver and 17 bronze). However, People Sport has established that 46 athletes travelled to Morocco, eight of those being guides and were accompanied by 14 officials, of which two were medical staff, bringing the contingent to 60. The 61st person was a junior staffer in the Ministry of Sports who never turned up for the trip. People Sport has learnt that the wrangles within KNPC are centred around the 2020 Tokyo Paralympic Games. Personal interests The super secretariat that was recently formed to mediate between the two warring factions has little to show for it, but rather progressing personal interests. Initially, the Sports Disputes Tribunal (SDT) had asked for the formation of an interim committee to oversee the running of the federation but with  the team failing to move forward, a super secretariat came into the picture and is currently chaired by lawyer Njeri Onyango who is a member of the tribunal. Other members of the secretariat include Aliero—link to the International Paralympics Committee (IPC)—Pauline Awange, representing the mentally-handicapped, Doris Atieno, representing the wheelchair and amputees, Henry Wanyoike an athlete representative, Jairus Mugallo (mentally handicapped) and Douglas Sidialo representing the visually impaired. People Sport has learnt that a company linked to a member of the super secretariat has suspiciously secured a tender worth millions to manufacture ceremonial attire for the Tokyo Paralympics. While the government, through kit manufacturers Nike, mostly supplies running kits, track suites, spike and other necessities to the team, tendering for the ceremonial attire is usually left to the individuals and that is where exploitation comes in. At the centre of the dubious deal is a top SDT official who is said to have influenced the allocation of the tender, fueling the fire. IPC is reportedly aware of the wrangles and is keen on a quick solution since KNPC is yet to align their constitution to that of the global body, a year before the 2020 Tokyo Paralympics. As it stands, the Super Secretariat and not KNPC will be in charge of Team Kenya to the summer Games and with that comes a lot of monetary benefits from government and IPC. The 2016 Rio Paralympics saw the government allocate over Sh238 million to help the federation take part in the games and the sum is expected to rise for 2020 with more resources coming from IPC. Athletes frustrated Most of the athletes who talked to People Sport expressed frustrations at the current state of affairs, saying none of the warring factions have their interests at heart. “For us, it is about who is a lesser devil, one faction has been making a kill from the federation yes, but somehow thinks about the athletes as was seen when they fought to have the team travel to Morocco. The other group just wants to continue eating without thinking about the athletes,” said a senior member of the team who sought anonymity. This is going on as the team continues camping at a Nairobi hotel, vowing not to leave until their full allowances totaling Sh67,000 per head (Sh60,000 overseas and Sh7,000 local) are paid. The government tried to coerce the athletes with Sh7,000 in local allowances at the weekend which they turned down.  Sports Principal Secretary Kirimi Kaberia was expected to address the athletes yesterday but did not turn up.