Amos Abuga @PeopleSports11 Tactical naivety dominated Kenya’s performance as they concluded the two-day IAAF World Relays Championships with just one bronze medal at the Nissan Stadium, in Yokohama, Japan yesterday. Basic mistakes like stepping outside the track, not having athletes running their specialty and chaotic baton handover, just like in many other championships before, contributed to Kenya’s poor show. Anchored by team captain Aron Koech, Jared Momanyi, Maureen Thomas and Hellen Syombua the mixed 4x400m relay team claimed third place, having made it to the finals as one of the fastest losing quartet after setting a new national record of 3:16.90. Their time of 3:19.43 in the final was, however, slower. Kenya finished 13th overall with 11 points with USA topping the standings with 54. The men’s 4x200m quartet of Mark Otieno, Mike Mokamba, Samuel Chege and anchor Alphas Kishoiyan settled for fourth place in a season’s best of 1:22.55, a race they should have clinched a medal had they exchanged the baton better. The women’s equivalent registered an embarrassing DNF (Did Not Finish) after Eunice Kadogo, who started the race, failing to hand over the baton to Joan Cherono. On Saturday, the mixed 2x2x400m and the women’s 4x400m were the two events that Kenya lost tactically. In the mixed 2x2x400m that had Collins Kipruto and Eglay Nalyanya, the latter was disqualified after he stepped outside the track at the third exchange. Huge blunder Organisation was paramount in the race where each athlete was to cover two 400-metre laps but Kenya made a huge blunder as Nalyanya did her last leg with male opponents, something that saw them easily beaten. She was later quoted in a local daily saying herself and Kipruto were not made aware of the running order in good time. The women’s 4x400m team of Maureen Thomas, Hellen Syombua, Neviah Michira and Gladys Musyoki finished fifth in the opening heat in a time of 3:31.26 and failed to reach the final. This was largely due to the fact that most of the runners in that category were 800m specialists. Team Kenya’s last-minute decision to leave behind Maximilla Imali and Evangeline Makena because of debatable high testosterone levels had weakened the team a day to their departure for Yokohama. Athletics Kenya were well aware of the court ruling on testosterone levels and instead of looking for replacements in advance, they sent 800m specialties to the event who expectedly struggled with Musyoki in particular running out of gas in the final 200m.