Horticulture farmer Patrick Gikunda from Githongo Village, Meru County, like farmers elsewhere, has continued to grapple with water scarcity that has negated productivity. “For farmers in Meru, extreme weather conditions have been a notable hindrance; a condition that has driven growers to adapt small-scale irrigation techniques to boost production,” said Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology (JKUAT) researcher, Simon Mogere who is stationed in the area in collaborative efforts between the university and SNV – Netherlands. But introduction of a unique farming technology by JKUAT’s Water Research and Resource Centre (Warrec) in partnership with SNV-Netherlands has enabled Gikunda to reap more benefits from his farming venture. Increased yield Gikunda who had just harvested cabbages became confident that the data obtained from the flying sensor technology was critical in his increased yield in the current season. Flying Sensors project, implemented in Marimba, Githongo and Kibirichia villages, uses drones, referred to as ‘Flying Sensor’ to assess water management and crop health in irrigated fields of cabbage, potatoes and other vegetables. A flying sensor is a small drone that can fly up to 200 metres above the ground and take high resolution images utilising the Near-Infra Red (NIR) spectrums of light. The images are later decoded and the information shared with farmers. “Using this technology, farmers can discover diseases on plants and stress indicators which are impossible to see with the naked eye thus encouraging precision farming,” explains Prof Bancy Mati, Warrec director and the project team leader. Mogere says the information obtained from the sensors can also help farmers make prompt decisions regarding irrigation and water application in various sections using the Rota Sprayer technology project involves a sprinkler that sprays water in a larger area compared to the conventional sprinklers. The sprinkler sprays water in a larger area compared to the conventional ones. The Rota Sprayer system operates at low pressure and applies water uniformly within the wetted perimeter and can cover an area of 100 metre squared in one application. In addition, the system is simplified, easy to assemble, light in weight and affordable by the small farmers. The project provided partial scholarships to two JKUAT postgraduate students; Mogere and Sarah Nagami who worked with Flying Sensors and Rota Sprayers, respectively. The projects aimed at assessing water productivity of crops grown under irrigation in smallholder farms besides evaluating the technical performance of the Rota Sprayer irrigation system with regards to water application uniformity.