Over  the years, the area is considered  volatile, with residents quick to become violent in a flash. One organisation, Amani Kibera is working hard to change this perception. One of the founders, Ben Ooko tells us more Harriet James @harriet86jim What’s your organisation all about and why was it established? Four people, Ben Ooko, Anastacia Karugo, Bernard Maticha and Christopher Abuor, founded Amani Kibera community-based organisation in 2007. We came together to promote peaceful coexistence amongst the people of Kibra, who were divided along political and tribal lines during the 2007 general election. We started it to encourage the community to embrace and celebrate diversity and to redeem the image of Kibra, which is often referred to as the worst to live in. How was it being brought up and raised in Kibra? Most of us were born and raised in Kibra. Growing up, Kibra was one community, and today, because of political reasons, I see a politically vibrant Kibra where people know their rights and demand for it. Unfortunately, I also see a Kibra where division along tribal lines is real and people tend to live where people from their ethnic group are a majority. Was it easy starting the organisation? Promoting acceptance and celebration of diversity in an opposition area was not so easy. The contested elections brought forth the deep divisions amongst the people, but one thing that made me happy was the resolve to resist any form of violence and destruction of property. Unfortunately, we lacked the capacity to carry out comprehensive peace activities since most of us had no training in peace building. Our programmes focus on inculcating a culture of peace and non-violent approach to conflict. Recently, the demolition of our resource centre to pave way for the Yaya-Langata link road that went through Kibra and displaced thousands was also a setback. What are some of the projects that you are involved in and how do they bring peace? We wanted to do projects that will unite the people of Kibra. The projects had three pillars; sports, education and arts. Sports is such a powerful tool of unity and hence we opted to use football since many people love it and for its power to mobilise many. We also do arts, which goes hand-in-hand with sports. Education, too, is a powerful tool to achieve any form of development. It is for this reason that we thought of establishing a community library that will not only be a place for people to read but a place where the community members can meet and share great ideas irrespective of their tribal, religious or political affiliation. What are some of the achievements the organisation is proud of? Since its inception, we are proud to have been awarded the Best Peace Activities geared towards peaceful 2013 elections by the Jesuits Hakimani. In 2010, our organisation was feted as the best community-based organisation working with the youth on issues of peace by Media Focus on Africa and Butterfly works. We were also the best Community Library 2011 and 2013 and first runners-up in 2014 at the Maktaba Awards by the Goethe-Institute Kenya and the Jomo Kenyatta Foundation. We have also organised 11 editions of the Amani Kibra peace and education soccer tournament and won several sports awards. For instance, in 2013, we were the runners- up in the Amani Kibera soccer tournament under 13 and third in 2014 in the Kibra league under 16. In 2017, we were third in the Nairobi County Governor Cup, second in the Football Kenya Federation (FKF) regional women football league, winners under 16 girls category, MYSA girls tournament and third in under 13 Kibra league. In 2018, we were second in the FKF Nairobi regional women football league, and champions of the11th edition of Amani Kibera Peace and third in the society empowerment project tournament in Oyugis. What are the organisation’s future plans? We want to rebuild our resource centre, which houses our offices, the community library and the Uwezo girls tailoring centre. In addition, we endeavour to be among the leading organsations in using sports for peace and development.