Confusion continues to cloud the forthcoming Boxing Association of Kenya (BAK) elections with conflicting information from the three contestants. Contestants Kennedy Odhiambo, Antony Ombok ‘Jamal’ and outgoing John Kameta have all issued varying reasons and positions as regards the elections which are expected to resolve an impasse that has rocked the boxing fraternity in the last one year. Nairobi-based Ombok, who serves as Kisumu secretary, supports the elections that have been slated for May 28 at Kasarani stadium while Kameta, who is recognised as the legitimate chairman by the International Boxing Association (AIBA) has dismissed the elections as a charade. Odhiambo, the proprietor of Kentrack Entertainment and Boxing Club who serves as the Nairobi BAK chairman, states that the rule of law should be allowed to prevail, questioning the sudden emergence of ‘branches that have never existed or recognised by the Registrar’. He has called for a sober approach to develop and grow the sport in the country to bring it back to its past glory. Sobriety needed “The country has never had so many branches. An example is branches we have never heard like Trans Nzoia and Vihiga. Kisumu has had a few problems and Siaya has never participated in a tournament. We need sobriety in this case if the Kenya Defence Forces (KDF), Kenya Prisons, the two pillars of Kenya boxing are pulling away. I believe we all need a way forward. Otherwise, I will not take part in a sham election,” says Odhiambo. Two weeks ago, a group of delegates led by former BAK secretary Isaac Mbote met in Nairobi and resolved to hold the association elections to the dismay of the contestants. Paul Mung’ori, secretary of the Kameta camp says: “That’s part of a coup d’etat that started in 2017.  The era coups ended with the enactment of Sports Act. Kenya is a constitutional democracy. Council has members as per BAK constitution. Kameta, George Onyango (Foreman) and myself are to drive the process. The rest are strangers. There must be rule of law.” Mung’ori was appointed BAK secretary during a previous Council Meeting at Kaloleni Social Hall in August last year. Mung’ori replaced Mbote, who had been suspended in 2016 for missing executive committee meetings, but the Tribunal dismissed the appointment.