Bernice Mbugua @BerniceMuhindi Director of Public Prosecutions and the family of slain Rongo University student Sharon Otieno have opposed the application to have Justice Jessie Lessit recuse herself from hearing the murder case saying it is an abuse of the court process. The family, through lawyer George Wajackoyah, says the application by Governor Zacharia Okoth Obado’s personal assistant Michael Oyamo and Casper Obiero, a clerk in Migori county to have Lessit recuse herself is mischievous and meant to delay and frustrate the determination of the case. The family in court documents accuses Obiero of taking too long to make the application of recusal saying an allegation of bias ought to be made at the earliest instance. Frivolous “The application is not in good faith as it was brought after denial of bail,” they claimed in court documents. DPP also opposes the said application stating that it is frivolous, unfounded and an abuse of the court process and does not meet the standards required for recusal. In his response, Deputy Director of Public Prosecutions Jacob Ondari said there is no law barring a court from hearing and determining bail applications filed at different times during the trial process. Oyamo and Obiero in their application had argued that they would not get a fair hearing as Justice Lessit had made prejudicial remarks while declining to release them on bail that negated the presumption of innocence accorded in the Constitution. They claimed Justice Lessit erred in finding that they had acknowledged the evidence against them. However, Ondari in his rebuttal stated before the court records a plea it has to be satisfied that the accused understands the nature of the offence. “There is no record or other evidence at all that this court made any remarks that the accused persons had admitted the evidence against them,” he argued. No evidence Ondari posited that trite law provides for a case to be proved through circumstantial evidence and that there is no known law stating that cases can only be proved through direct evidence. He said the observation of the judge that the applicants had acknowledged the evidence had nothing to do with strength of the evidence for conviction but was response to the contention by the defence that the prosecution had not placed evidence before court yet the defence had the evidence in their submissions for grant of bail or bond. “The applicants have not placed any evidence before the court to justify recusal of the court from trying this case. The findings of the judge were premised on the averments and materials placed before the court and the circumstances of the case at the time,” he stated. The application will be heard on May 29. Justice Lessit further directed the victims’ participation to be confined to bond after the defence counsel opposed their response to the recusal application saying the matter is being prosecuted by the State. “Their participation will be set during the pre-trial, their interest will now be represented by the State,” ruled the judge. The two were charged last year alongside Obado with the murder of Sharon and her unborn child.