Everyone has their morning routine. Some pop out of bed ready to get going, while others dread the thought of leaving the warm comfort of the cozy nest. Some tendencies aren’t the most beneficial to your health, your state of mind, or the productivity of your day. Here are a few things to avoid 1.Hitting the snooze button tires you for the rest of the day It’s tempting to hit snooze and sleep for just five more minutes. But let’s be realistic, five minutes are never enough. And experts warn that it’s a bad habit that should be broken. If you hit the snooze button, you might enter into a sleep cycle you won’t likely finish. What’s the big deal, you ask? It seems that if you don’t finish that cycle, you’ll wake up groggy rather than refreshed. The best thing for an alert day is to avoid the temptation completely. 2.Reaching for your phone increases your stress levels Most of us are guilty of this habit. Even while still half-asleep, you have this impulse to see if you have missed a text, or an Instagram notification, or some fire memes in the group chat. However, reaching for your phone first thing in the morning not only has a detrimental impact on one’s productivity and health, but also affects the physical structure of the brain. One study found the act of checking our phone jolts our brains into a wave of high stress from the moment we wake up, causing feelings of paranoia, worry, fear, anger and irritability – all of which are linked to a weakened immune system. Also if you start your morning by getting online, you’ll never recover that time. 3.Preparing in the dark fools your internal body clock Because our bodies’ internal clocks are so sensitive to light, getting up and ready in the dark can send a signal to your body that it’s still night-time. This will only keep you feeling tired, rather than alert, energised and in a really good mood. 4.Take a cold shower, instead of hot to boost mental alertness Hot shower sounds tempting in the chilly morning. It relieves tension and soothes stiff muscles. Although it is a good thing, hot showers can be too relaxing for the morning. Save it for the night. Instead take a cold shower. A cold shower — as unbearable as it sounds — can help shock your body awake. It increases mental alertness and relieves your body of fatigue, which helps us tackle important tasks in the morning. Also, cold showers cause your skin’s pores to close up, which keeps dirt and grime out. It also helps with split end hairs. 5. Drinking coffee before 9.30am is bad for your health Many won’t like hearing this, but drinking coffee before 9.30am is not a good idea. Some scientists have found that our bodies produce higher amounts of the stress hormone cortisol, which helps us stay alert and energised between 8am and 9am. By drinking coffee before or during that magic hour, the caffeine will force your body to produce less cortisol in the early morning. So for most people, the best time to drink coffee is after 9:30 am. Instead, enjoy that lemon water, anticipating the joy of pouring that perfect cup of coffee later on in the day. 6.Curling up in bed will make you tense and rigid Psychologists argue that people who wake up in the foetal position wake up much more stressed out. In fact, there is evidence that stretching first thing helps to increase flexibility, improve circulation and relieve tension. Therefore, stretch out wide. This not only gets those muscles limbered up, it is a way to build confidence as you begin your day. 7.Making your bed increases productivity Charles Duhigg, author of The Power of Habit and Smarter Faster Better, suggests that forming good habits, including making your bed in the morning, is associated with increased productivity throughout the rest of the day. Duhigg claims making your bed is a “keystone habit” that can spark chain reactions that help other good habits take hold. 8.A glass of water will help you enjoy a lot of health benefits Grab a glass or two of water once you are out of bed. However, drink water at room temperature or warm water because cold water can shock your system and prevent all of the many health benefits from taking effect. Besides helping to detox your liver, drinking water first thing can help with constipation, prevent urinary tract infections, help with weight loss, boost your immune system, battle bad breath and strengthen the brain, among others. 9.Skipping breakfast to lose weight is a  fallacy Breakfast is the most important meal of the day, so think about making it a priority. Eating breakfast can help prevent diabetes and heart disease, and improve performance and memory. 10.Complaining ushers you to a day of full of negativity Some people start their day complaining—how they hate getting up early, how they dread going to work, how tired they feel, among others. Complaining at any time of the day is bad, but it is particularly bad in the morning. The words we use have a tangible effect on our subconscious mind. If we are complaining first thing in the morning, we are setting a negative intention for the rest of our day. Start your day with gratitude, read some motivational books, listen uplifting music. Do the things, which will set your mood for the positive.