Eighteen more suspects in Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) tax evasion probe were yesterday arraigned before Milimani Law Courts. The State, through prosecutor Duncan Ondimu, made a request before senior resident magistrate Paul Mayova to have the suspects detained for 21 days to enable it complete investigations. “There are compelling reasons to warrant detention of the respondents pending detailed investigations into their illegal criminal enterprises,” he told the court. Ondimu told court that based on investigations and several leads, the suspects pose great risk to the mainstay of the economy hence risking national security of the country and their actions must be fully investigated. The suspects include Lynne Chepkemboi, Nicholus Omondi, James Mathanga, John Okore, Dianah Walegwa and Susan Joan. The court heard that they were arrested on May 14 and during arrest, most of the suspects had new mobile phones and others claimed they did not have mobile phones. An affidavit filed by investigating officer Athor Onyango, attached to the  Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI), says the suspects are being investigated for, among others, the offence of tax evasion, money laundering and abuse of office. Onyango added that the investigations are complex and require detailed analysis in respect to over 178 mobile phone numbers and M-Pesa statements. At the same time four KRA staff—Joseph Kuyo Legei, Georgry Kipsang Ngeno, Felix Ndabuki Kimeu and Caleb Angwenyi Auka—filed applications at the High Court seeking anticipatory bail. The four had been summoned at the DCI for questioning in connection with ongoing tax fraud investigations. Justice Luka Kimaru yesterday declined to grant the four anticipatory bail and ordered them to present themselves at DCI headquarters by 1pm. Meanwhile, 38 KRA employees, who were detained for 14 days, have since filed an application at the High Court challenging their detention. On Monday, senior resident Mayova ruled that the KRA staff remain in custody for two weeks as detectives probe a tax evasion scandal. The suspects says that by virtue of their arrest they are on interdiction and cannot visit KRA offices or interfere with any witnesses.  The court will deliver its ruling today.