Hillary Mageka @hillarymageka Senators and National Assembly members are headed for a collision course over the proposed reduction of Sh9 billion meant for counties. While senators are proposing to increase the County Revenue Allocation from Sh310 billion passed by National Assembly to Sh335 billion, the latter have sided with the National Treasury’s proposal to give the devolved units Sh310 billion in the 2019-20 budget. In the amended Division of Revenue Bill (2019), senators have increased the total revenue due to the counties to Sh391 billion from the Sh371 billion projected earlier. The Senate recommendation is an agreement with Commission of Revenue Allocation (CRA) approval which is based on altering the current base of Sh314 billion by three-year average of annual inflation factor of 6.9 per cent. In addition, the lawmakers rejected Sh6.2 billion listed as the conditional grant on Leasing of Medical Equipment in the bill. Costing of projects Instead, they recommend that the funds be re-allocated to be part of the equitable share to the 47 county governments, saying counties have so far been charged Sh450 million at the source. Legislators insisted payment of the medical equipment   discontinued until such a time when the implementing agency will provide adequate information on the costing of the project. The threat by the senators means that there will be a stalemate in the passage of the bill. While moving the motion on Tuesday, Senate Finance and Budget chair Senator Mohamed Mahamud (Mandera) questioned National Assembly’s approval of Sh310 billion as the equitable share to the counties yet the National government is getting Sh1.5 trillion. Threshold provided Mahamud (pictured) said the baseline used by Treasury for the equitable share for counties started from Sh304 billion which is less than the 15 per cent minimum threshold provided in the Constitution. “We as a Senate support that counties get Sh335 billion based on the Commission on Revenue Allocation formula. We must reject in totality the attempt by the National Assembly to reduce the allocations,” said Mahamud.