Kimathi Mutegi @kimathimutegi Dear Mr President, My name is Wanjiku… yes, that Wanjiku… and I beg your pardon for the horrible handwriting. I am drafting this from the back of a Gikomba matatu and my ageing fingers are a bit shaky from the morning chill. Besides, the bale of second-hand clothes between my legs makes a lousy surface for drafting anything.  Today being a public holiday, you probably expect I should be sprawled before the TV catching in on the all-important celebrations. However, things don’t work that way anymore. I can no longer afford to waste any free time on mundane things such as family and rest. Basic needs Free time is an opportunity to maximise returns on a side hustle because these days, it’s paramount to have one. It’s not greed. No sir! Actually, my reputation for being an inexhaustible worker has grown global with time. Inexplicably, however, my pay slip has lost confidence in the time, so much so that it now can barely stand up against the basic needs. I have to shore it up with a side hustle and despite thrifty competition, I am able to sponge sugar for my children’s tea, or a few days of fare to my regular job, from my neighbours in the estate through the mitumba sales I do on my free time. Better quality It may surprise you that among the best selling second-hand clothes are used underwear. Yes sir, brassieres, boxers, socks, slightly used, is my marketing lingo. Your subjects say these are better quality and affordable. In the beginning, I wondered if used lingerie could be a source of some weird ailments and would advise my clients to boil them, overnight if possible, before use. But then I realised that such wonderments were terrible for economics, so I kept them to myself and eventually stopped wondering altogether. For a modest fee, I also MC weddings, funerals and other social events. Despite all this labour, however, the red line under my name in the book of life – not to be confused with the Book of Life –has steadily dropped, under my request of course, to accommodate more items. The 32-page exercise book is where the shopkeeper across my house records credit on columns drawn in painstaking straightness from top to bottom, in black.  The debtor’s name straddles the top of the parent column in all-caps, next to a conspicuous amount scribbled in red. Double line This is the credit limit determined solely by the shopkeeper using dynamics that may include how much he dis(likes) you. Once you exhaust your limit, he draws a double line in red below your last borrowed item.  He, however, allows negotiation for credit limit expansion, which is what I have been doing until now. I currently stand at the bottom margin of the book. The confounding realisation that my indebtedness has comfortably outpaced my income despite my hard work struck me yesterday as I tried to balance this month’s payslip. Besides the shopkeeper, I owe a litany of mobile apps various amounts loaned at ridiculous interest rates.  Of course I cannot pay them off at once so each end month. I repay the biggest, then borrow again and pay another and borrow to pay… and the cycle continues.  That’s my life sir, perpetual indebtedness. I also realised that I have gradually been pushed to the periphery of town as rent became more and more unbearable.  But I still survive and that’s because the Never Say Die spirit of the Kenyan worker is alive and kicking in me. That and a resilient optimism for the future because projections by economists suggest a growing economy, and a growing economy is a good thing. However, on this Labour Day, I can’t help but wonder what sort of wizardry this is, that our economy is growing, but my pockets are shrinking! Happy Labour Day, Sir!