Kenya’s Eliud Kipchoge will again target the mythical two-hour marathon barrier in a special race to be held between late September and early October, likely in London. Kipchoge, 34, fell just 26 seconds short when he made an attempt in partnership with Nike at Monza in 2017, which was unratified by the IAAF for world record purposes as it involved a wind-shielding truck, drop-in pacemakers and drinks ferried to him by moped. This latest attempt, which is backed by Britain’s richest man, Sir Jim Ratcliffe and his company INEOS, will follow a broadly similar formula. “Running the fastest ever marathon time of 2:00:25 was the proudest moment of my career,” Kipchoge said. “To get another chance to break the magical two-hour mark is incredibly exciting. I always say that no human is limited, and I know that it is possible for me to break this barrier,” he added. Kipchoge, 34, last week won his fourth London marathon, has now won 11 of the 12 marathons he’s contested and set a world record of 2:01:39 when winning the Berlin marathon in 2018. “I learnt a lot from my previous attempt and I truly believe that I can go 26 seconds faster than I did in Monza two years ago,” he said. The venue for the “INEOS 1:59 Challenge” is still to be decided, with a number of options that offer a flat-looped circuit being investigated for the event. “A London venue is being considered,” organisers said. It is not yet clear whether the attempt will be on roads or a London park, with the aim of drawing a crowd to aid performance after the last project was effectively contested behind closed doors. A complication is that Kipchoge requires a span of dates to choose from in order to optimise conditions, among the reasons for their slim failure last time was the minutiae of ‘dew factor’ and it being more humid on the day in Monza than expected. This time, they want a range of three available days, with a view to choosing one when the forecast is closest to the marathon optimum of 12 degrees heat. Such flexibility could be a big ask with the Mayor of London, given the logistics of closing the roads. Ratcliffe, in comments that apply pressure on London, hinted they will go abroad if they do not get what they want. -AGENCIES 