During my trip to Durban, South Africa, I managed to visit a township on the eastern side of Kwa Zulu-Natal known as Inanda. Being a history lover, this trip opened my eyes to the depth of South Africa’s history and the relevance of some of the important figures. The trip was organised by Woza Enanda tours and it was the first time I’ve ever been in a shuttle tour around town, something that I feel towns in Kenya should embrace. It was a quick ride and we had around two hours to cover the town and still make various stops, take photos and learn. And we hacked it, thanks to our tour guide, Ms Nikiwe Mchunu, who was knowledgeable, strict with time and ensured that we all were comfortable. One thing I noticed about all the streets in Durban is that they all had names of great people in history. From Samora Machel to Florence Nzama, Durban is ruled by the spirits of the legends who took part in fighting against the oppressive apartheid regime. The streets are wide and we met no traffic along the way. Another thing is that they have traffic lights, which they call robots, and one has to press a button to indicate that they are crossing the road. We passed by Moses Mabhida Stadium, named after a former secretary general of the South African communist party. With a capacity of around 60,000, the stadium was one of the host stadiums of the 2010 FIFA World Cup and currently serves as a venue for various activities including bungee jumping, football, cricket, golf, and even concerts. We passed by a street called the morning side, which impressed me, as its people are known to wake up as early as 2am in the morning. I know I’m not a morning person, so living here would depress me. But the area is posh, with lavish mansions and driveways featuring big luxury cars. From there, one can get a 180-degree view of Durban city.  We took photos there for just five minutes then headed over to Florida Street, renowned for its party life. We reached the Zulu speaking Indanda township, which is about 24km from Durban’s inland. It was home to the first president of ANC, John Langalibalele Dube, served as a base of operations for Mahatma Gandhi and is also the birthplace of the syncretic Nazareth Baptist Church. Our next stop was the Phoenix settlement where Mahatma Gandhi’s house was. The house was burnt down to ashes and a replica built in its place. During that time, the apartheid regime burnt down the property of anyone who seemed to sympathise with blacks. Inside are his famous quotes, photos and what he stood for. For instance, on the window, one of his philosophies which caught my eye talks about seven deadly characters that are dangerous to humanity, such as commerce without morality, or knowledge without character. The Gandhis resided in Durban from 1893 and established a small village like settlement known as the Phoenix, on the North-Western outskirts of Inanda. This was where Gandhi and his followers strove to follow a path of social change through passive resistance and had an activist newspaper, Indian Opinion, which fought for the rights of Indians in South Africa. Our next stop was Ohlange High School, where the late Nelson Mandela cast his first vote in 1994. The place is significant because it was founded by the first president of ANC, John Langalibale Dube, a son of a high Zulu pastor who composed great essays, founded the first bilingual Zulu/ English newspaper, Ilanga Lasenatali (The Sun of Natal) and was a pioneer of Zulu literature and education. He was known as Mafukuzela as he was always a busy man and established several schools with his first wife Angelina, (she walked 50km every day just to be in school in her childhood days). Once Mandela voted for the first time, he went to Langalibale’s grave and declared the famous saying, “I have come to let you know that South Africa is now free.” “It was important for Mandela to be here for the black man to believe that he had a right to vote and that education was the key to attaining what he/she wants,” said Nikiwe. Nearly all South African presidents visit his grave for consultation and just to ‘report’ to him, so it felt like meeting a great person. We also visited the monument of the great Dr Pixley Ka Isaka Seme, the first black lawyer in South Africa and also one of the founders of the ANC.