Seth Onyango @SethManex An estimated 10 million Kenyans risk being locked out of critical government services unless they enlist in the Huduma Namba programme in the next 15 days. According to Interior Cabinet secretary Fred Matiang’i, 31 million — 65 per cent of the targeted 42m — had by weekend been registered in the ongoing National Integrated Identity Management System (NIIMS) that ends on May 28.  He said though the exercise is voluntary, the number will be a prerequisite for obtaining State services. Take longer “If for some reason a person feels they do not want to register, it’s unfortunate because, at some point, one will need services from the government. If you do not have a Huduma Namba, you will not be denied the service, what will happen is that government officers will take longer to serve you,” he said. Some of the services that Kenyans who fail to register with Huduma Namba would take longer to receive include National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF), National Social Security Fund (NSSF), passports registration and renewal, government cash transfer programme for the disadvantaged and the elderly, land transfers, police abstract forms, driving licences, certificates of good conduct and accessibility to Higher Education Loans Board (HELB) fund  among others. To make it easier to get services, Matiang’i, who was accompanied by colleagues Joe Mucheru (ICT), Prof George Magoha (Education), Sicily Kariuki (Health), Mwangi Kiunjuri (Agriculture) and Attorney General Kihara Kariuki appealed to Kenyans and foreign nationals residing in the country to get a Huduma Namba. “We cannot force you to register but we think it is a reasonable thing to do because getting services any other way is going to be unnecessarily bothersome and cumbersome for you,” he said. “If that is what you prefer…to be making trips to an office, five, six times because nobody can guarantee you they are going to get a document in a day or two or three…that is a choice for you. That is why we are advising people in a very diplomatic and sensible way to go and get listed.” Last month, a High Court ruling rendered the Huduma Namba registration non-mandatory. In their ruling, Justices Mumbi Ngugi, Weldon Korir and Pauline Nyamweya said the government should not withhold services from persons who may not be registered on NIIMS. But addressing the press at Harambee House yesterday, the CS reiterated that having the Huduma Namba would ease State services delivery. “Just like we cannot force you take a pin at KRA, but be smart enough to know that if you’re going to seek services, you need to get the services in a manner that is much more facilitative,” he said. As the mass registration exercise enters homestretch, the Interior CS stressed there will be no extension, urging those that would not have beaten the deadline to register at the chief’s office. Registration has been on going now for five weeks and with about 65 per cent of the projected population already enlisted. “If we go with the daily average we’ve had especially on peak days we’re well on our way on registering 40 million Kenyans,” said Matiangi.