Stockholm, Monday Swedish prosecutors said Monday they were reopening a 2010 rape investigation against WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, hoping to bring him to justice before the statute of limitations expires in August 2020. The 47-year-old has claimed the Swedish allegations were a pretext to transfer him to the United States, where he fears prosecution over the release by WikiLeaks of millions of classified documents. The inquiry has been revived at the request of the victim’s lawyer.  “I have today decided to reopen the investigation… There is still probable cause to suspect that Assange committed rape,” the deputy director of public prosecutions, Eva-Marie Persson, told reporters. “The previous decision (in May 2017) to close the investigation was not based on difficulties related to evidence, but on difficulties that blocked the investigation.” The Australian whistleblower, who holed himself up in the Ecuadoran embassy in London for seven years to avoid extradition order to Sweden, was arrested on April 11 after Ecuador gave him up. A London court sentenced him on May 1 to 50 weeks in jail for breaching the British order. Now that Assange has left Ecuador’s embassy, “I am of the opinion that the conditions are in place once again to pursue the case,” the prosecutor said. Embarrassing itself Persson said she hoped Assange could be questioned again, adding that she would ask a Swedish court to remand him in custody in absentia, and that a European arrest warrant would be issued. Assange’s Swedish lawyer, Per E Samuelson, said Sweden was “embarrassing itself” by reopening a decade-old case. “I’m not in the least concerned about the question of guilt,” he told Swedish television. Assange’s spectacular arrest revived his Swedish accuser’s hopes of seeing him brought to justice, and her lawyer had asked prosecutors to reopen the rape investigation. The alleged victim, who says she met Assange at a WikiLeaks conference in Stockholm, filed a complaint in August 2010. She accused him of having sex with her as she slept without protection despite repeatedly having denied him unprotected sex. Assange has always denied the allegations. WikiLeaks’s editor, Kristinn Hrafnsson, said Monday the reopening of the investigation would give him “a chance to clear his name”. Assange’s biggest concern, however, remains an extradition request from the United States where he is wanted for hacking. —AFP