James Magayi and Fred Likuyani @PeopleSports11 Barely six days since Mount Kenya United surprised the football community by boycotting their home match against Gor Mahia, Kenya’s top-flight, SportPesa Premier League, witnessed a second walkover  yesterday. This time Nzoia United chose to dish out free points to AFC Leopards after failing to agree with league organisers KPL on the venue. At the centre of the row is Nzoia’s insistence that the match be played at Mumias Complex against KPL’s stance that Bukhungu is the match venue. Mumias is among match venues which were blacklisted by KPL at the start of the season but following recent renovations, Nzoia were hoping to be the first team to play there. However, KPL have not cleared the Mumias yet, hence their decision to take the match to Bukhungu. And as the 2pm kick-off time approached, Leopards players and match officials entered the pitch with their opponents, said to have been at Mumias, nowhere to be seen. No representatives After waiting for 15 minutes, the officials, led by match commissioner Leonard Oyiengo, awarded a walkover to Leopards. “During our mandatory pre-match meeting at which the visitors were represented by operations manager Tom Juma and chief steward Edward Odera, hosts Nzoia failed to send their representatives and went further not to appear even after we waited for them for one-and-a-half hours and we had no option but hand AFC Leopards a walkover,” said Oyiengo. Denied opportunity However when contacted, Nzoia chairman Yappets Mokua said his club was denied an opportunity to choose a match venue and will appeal the decision. “We wrote to KPL on our home match venue and we chose Mumias Complex which was ‘approved’ as we realised that no one was ready to cater for the extra expenses in Kakamega,” said Mokua. Sources intimated to People Sport that Nzoia and Kakamega Homeboyz have a long standing rivalry that put paid to any efforts to have the two share Bukhungu and proceeds from gate collection since the latter was hosting Tusker FC at the same venue in the late kick-off. Their animosity pans from what Nzoia say is player poaching over time and even Homeboyz coach Nicholas Muyoti was hired from the sugar millers. In Awendo, on-form Derrick Otanga scored a brace as hosts Sony Sugar came from behind to hit Vihiga United 3-1. Vihiga took the lead after 18 minutes through Patrick Okulo and mounted a defensive wall in the second half but could not withstand Sony’s pressure, Otanga levelling on the hour mark before sealing his brace in jury time after Enoch Agwanda had scored the second in the 84th minute. Winless run Elsewhere, Kariobangi Sharks came from behind twice to pick a point against Chemelil Sugar following a 2-2 draw, extending their winless run to 10 games to leave coach William Muluya’s future hanging in the balance. In Machakos, Western Stima tasted their first league victory in 14 attempts after thumping woeful Mt Kenya United 3-0 while Chapa Dimba na Safaricom product David Majak and Boniface Muchiri scored within a minute as Tusker hammered Kakamega Homeboyz 3-1. Meanwhile, John Avire, Umaru Kasumba and George Maelo combined to give Sofapaka a narrow 3-2 victory over Posta Rangers as Mathare United piled more pressure on Zoo FC, thumping them 3-1.