Evelyn Makena @evemake_g A card from her son, a text message from her mother in Siaya County, a bunch of her favourite flowers – orchids  – and a drink from her husband pretty much sum up Faith Mirunde Hakala’s typical Mother’s Day celebrations. The Kenyan resident of Tempere, Finland says her mother is not keen on the day and only sends Faith a message “because everyone else is doing it”. But Faith surprises her during the day anyway. This year, when Faith was thinking of possible gifts to give her mother this Mother’s Day, the idea of building her a kindergarten came to mind. Deliver dream For a long time, her mother, a retired primary school teacher whose career spanned over 40 years aspired of putting up a kindergarten. A fortnight ago, Faith sent her mother funds to initiate the project as a Mother’s Day gift. “She has always wanted to run a kindergarten. It’s her dream, I must give it to her,” she says.  Yesterday, as the world marked this year’s day, a survey revealed that eight out of 10 Kenyans living abroad who celebrate Mother’s Day do so by sending money home. The survey by international money transfer service WorldRemit shows that among those who sent their mums money, 84 per cent also give them a call and 50 per cent send them a gift. Faith is among the 66 per cent of estimated three million Kenyans in the diaspora who send their mothers money. The mother of one moved to Finland in 2004 . “I send her money as often as she requires,” she says. Faith visits her mother once in a year and she alternately does the same. Seen less About four out of 10 of those surveyed said they have not seen their mothers in the last two years. “Mother’s Day is an important time for three million Kenyans living abroad to show their mums that they’re thinking of them. Our online money transfer service makes it easier for them to send money to their mothers during this day,”said Sharon Kinyanjui, Head of East and Central Africa at WorldRemit. “Customers make transfers at any-time from anywhere with just a few taps on their smartphones. The company delivers notifications to both the sender and the recipient when the money has been sent and received to help one stay connected at every stage of the money transfer journey.” In 2018 Kenyans in diaspora sent home Sh270 billion ranking remittances among top foreign exchange earner.