Noven Owiti and Irene Githinji @PeopleDailyKe The Council of Governors (CoG) has opposed the National government’s proposal to deduct county funds to pay for leasing of medical equipment. Chairman Wycliffe Oparanya and Kisumu Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o yesterday urged county governments not to accept deduction of their allocations from Treasury to finance the equipment, which cost an estimated Sh38 billion. Oparanya said county governments had not been fully involved in the agreement between suppliers and the National government on the leasing of the equipment. He said counties only entered into a general agreement with the National government on the maintenance factor. “We are not going to accept any deductions on our sharable revenue on this issue unless we are clearly brought on board. We are telling every county that will be requested to make any payment not do so until we agree on the modalities of the lease,” Oparanya told the press in Kisumu. Governors have also  threatened to seek legal redress to prevent Treasury’s proposal to reduce counties’ shareable revenue by Sh9 billion. Last week, Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa urged counties to accept available resources and use them prudently. The CS said the harsh economic conditions the country is going through cannot allow the National government to give counties the money they are asking for. Tough year “This has been a tough year. There have been challenges including drought. These are some of the things we should accept and use available resources prudently,” said Wamalwa. He revealed that President Uhuru Kenyatta would lead a summit of National and County governments leaders to agree on sharing of resources. In its presentation to the Senate, the CoG has recommended that the base for 2019/20 allocations be Sh314 billion as legalised in the Division of Revenue Bill and not Sh305 billion as proposed by Treasury. CoG says the shortfall in revenue projections should be borne by the National government, not counties.