Seth Onyango @SethManex Venezuela last week became the first country to launch its own cryptocurrency ─ giving more credence to the digital currency revolution. Within just hours on the market, its oil-backed cryptocurrency “petro” attracted $735 million (Sh75 billion) worth of investment. Developments in Venezuela come just months after virtual currency technology firm Belfrics Global launched its bitcoin exchange in Kenya. However, local investors just about to dip a toe into the bitcoin market, are apprehensive that it may be another ponzi scheme. It is not. Unlike ponzi schemes, virtual currencies do not offer quick fixes to your financial woes ─ or greed if you may call it so. Plus its trading is not shrouded in vague promises of high returns with capital inflows and outflows that are kept in a secret ledger. Cryptocurrency Quite simply, cryptocurrency is like using PayPal or a Debit Card, except it represents digital currency instead of fiat currency like the Kenya Shilling. As a digital asset it is designed to work as a medium of exchange that uses cryptography (coding) to secure its transactions, to control the creation of additional units, and to verify the transfer of assets. This virtual currency has created dramatic paradigm shift from the world’s conventional financial system as more people pour their investment into the block chain technology. Return on Investment While digital trading is beginning to strike code among Kenyans, few still know how they can capitalise on this investment bandwagon. PD Wikendi sought answers from Belfrics Group Chairman and CEO Praveen Kumar on how investors in small block chain markets like Kenya can cash in on bitcoin. He argues that while you can make cash from investing in bitcoin in just months, one should give it at least three years to see the value of the cryptocurrency swell. They can instead trade off the digital asset at handsome prices. “Kenya is a volatile market and it will take three to five years for investors to see the return on investment…as it becomes more popular its demand will rise and profit investors,” he said. The price of Bitcoin has shot up from under $1,000 (Sh1 million) to more than $19,000 Sh1.9 million), before settling (most recently) at about $11,000 (Sh1.1 million) which shows how volatile it is. According to Kumar, it is that pricing that has kept Kenyan investors out of the cryptocurrency ecosystem. However, he said that local authorities, especially the Central Bank of Kenya should give the necessary approvals for the local market to grow. “Lack of regulation means investors can be duped by rogue companies,” he warned. Generally, bitcoin does not generate returns. Since it is a software, its price is directly correlated to its scarcity and demand. The demand is not forced on others, or do bitcoin’s biggest proponents go around asking people for money and telling them to invest more into it. New users that join the bitcoin network don’t fund the older users with new money. Kumar wants Kenyans to do due diligence before they invest in the block chain technology. Potential Kenyan investors should know that, bitcoins are scarce and useful. According to a bitcoin site, the currency is like gold where there is limited amount on earth. “As new gold is mined, there is always less and less gold left and it becomes harder and more expensive to find and mine. The same is true with bitcoin,” said Buy Bitcoin Worldwide. There are only 21 million bitcoin, and as time goes on, they become harder and harder to mine. Take a look at bitcoin’s inflation rate and supply rate.  