PD Team @PeopleSport11 The credibility of selected local referees has been questioned after an increase in biased officiating that has seen a number of teams call for scrutiny of the whistle-blowers. Suspicion has arisen on the backdrop of ongoing investigations of three referees by the Football Kenya Federation (FKF) disciplinary committee over bribery allegations. On Sunday, referee Andrew Juma was faulted as Tusker FC came from 2-0 down to force a 2-2 draw in a crunch league match against Sofapaka at the Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos. Juma, who played for Tusker as a custodian before becoming a whistle blower, had added four minutes of injury time but extended it, with the brewers scoring in the 97th minute to spark protests from the Sofapaka bench. “It is sarcastic for the ref to say his watch stopped functioning yet he even had two,” said Sofapaka president Elly Kalekwa. He added: “The ref was biased from the word go, giving Tusker all fouls in 50-50 tackles, then when Tusker defender Eugene Asike forced our top scorer Umaru Kasumba out with a reckless tackle, no foul was awarded to us.” With seven matches remaining, Kalekwa wants top referees considered for matches involving the title contenders and also suggested the top four and bottom four teams play their matches at the same time. On May 1, at Bukhungu Stadium in Kakamega, centre referee Agneta Itubo needed police escort after her controversial decisions saw Vihiga United pip Chemelil Sugar 2-1 in a crucial relegation dog fight. “Centre referee Agneta Itubo allowed a dubious goal by Vihiga to stand against the wish of one of her linesmen,” said Chemelil official Fredrick Onyango. Itubo and Juma are believed to have failed the referees Performance Endurance Test (PET) held at Kasarani and Machakos stadiums a fortnight ago. Other Fifa recognised referees who also failed the test are Wilson Otieno, Zacharia Ashira, Judy Muhonja and Dan Ogosi. FKF boss Nick Mwendwa said: “In the absence of Video Assistant Referee (VAR), small errors are bound to arise and that is normal everywhere in the world, but if they are being deliberately biased, that would be unacceptable.”