Kenya Basketball Federation (KBF) women’s premier league champions Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) are set to play their season opening match this weekend against University of Nairobi (UoN) Dynamites. Seven weeks into the 2019 season, the dockers have not played a single league match as all their fixtures have been postponed for various reasons. They start their title campaign at home on Sunday. Coach Antony Ojukwu has acquired the services of five new players with three more expected to sign before the end of May. The weekend’s action will see the return of last season’s Most Valuable Player (MVP) Celine Okumu to KPA after turning out for bankers Equity Hawks last season. Her return is a big boost to the dockers who struggled last season following exit of key players. The tactician has also acquired the services of point guard Grace Wanjiku who has for the last three years been playing  for Uganda’s KCCA.  Becky Nkatha, Rachael Wandago and teammate Beryl Millungo also join the side from Storms and Kenyatta University respectively. “I am eager to see how the squad performs in our first match. We have been forced to break training for a while but we are back and hoping our fixtures flow. I am still rebuilding the team. We have a busy season especially now that we have to play catch up but we will take it one match at a time,” said coach Ojukwu. KPA will miss the services of Linet Atieno who is now plying her trade in Senegal but is expected to return before the second leg begins. Annrose Mandela who signed for rivals Hawks will also be missing. In other women league matches, Kenyatta University Oryx host Western Delight while holders Hawks play Storms on Saturday. The day’s action will also witness a varsity derby between Zetech and Strathmore. On Sunday Zetech take on Eagle Wings while Storms face off with Oryx. Meanwhile men premier league side Kisumu Lakeside take a trip to Nairobi in what could be their toughest assignment so far as they face Thunder and Ulinzi Warriors on Saturday and Sunday respectively. So far, Lakeside have won just one of the four matches played,  the victory coming against World Hope in Kisumu. The side boasts one of the youngest squads. “These are tough matches, no doubt, but we have prepared well.  We are facing Thunder who are experienced and Warriors who besides experience are physical and fast.  We are looking to match up the latter’s speed by dictating the pace of the game. Against Thunder, if we could stop their match maker’s plays we will be safe,” said Lakeside coach George Oanasi.