Irene Githinji and Agencies @PeopleDailyKe Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch (HRW)  have accused Kenya of complicity in the abduction of two South Sudan nationals. The two — Dong Samuel Luak and Aggrey Idri — human rights activists and vocal critics of South Sudan President Salva Kiir, respectively, were reportedly abducted in Nairobi in January 2017. The two organisations asked Kenyan and South Sudanese authorities to step up investigations into the abductions. However, on January 17, the High Court ended its 24-month oversight of the Kenyan police investigation initiated immediately after the disappearance of both men in Nairobi, stating that the police had acted “prudently and within the law.” The court further stated that it had to respect the police approach and timeline, and that the victims’ families should pursue alternative administrative remedies such as filing a complaint with the Internal Police Oversight Authority. HRW called for an independent and effective probe into what they described as extrajudicial execution of critics. It further stated that UN panel of experts on South Sudan’s report finding indicated that South Sudan’s National Security Service kidnapped Dong and Aggrey in Nairobi on January 23 and 24, 2017 respectively. The UN experts said in the report that the two were flown to South Sudan on a commercial plane chartered with the help of South Sudan’s embassy in Nairobi on January 27. According to AI and HRW, the report indicates that the two were detained at the NSS headquarters at Jebel in the capital, Juba, before being moved to the NSS training facility on Kiir’s farm in Luri, near Juba. The panel of experts said that it is “highly probable” that the two were executed there on January 30, 2017. HRW Associate Africa Director Jehanne Henry said the UN experts panel’s finding that Dong and Aggrey were most likely murdered days after their abduction while family and friends were stonewalled by Kenyan and South Sudanese authorities, a move he described as cruel. Filing complaint “South Sudanese authorities should stop blocking this case and grant independent investigators access to security facilities in Jebel and Luri,” he added. The right groups also said South Sudanese authorities should allow independent ceasefire monitors, the UN Panel of Experts and UN Commission on Human Rights in South Sudan access to the alleged detention site at Luri.