Faith Chebet @chebetkorir The best age that you have ever lived? I’ve lived and learnt a lot as I got older. What do you like and dislike most about being an interior designer  I like to see people smile after I have delivered what I promised. I dislike the fact that interior designers are so underrated in Kenya. Biggest misconception people have about you? People assume that I joke a lot, hence they do not take me seriously sometimes. Memorable country you have ever been to? Denmark. They have remarkable architecture, both modern and ancient. I also fell in love with the place because of the country’s functional design sensibilities. What’s the sweetest act anyone has ever done for you? A friend once invited me to her place and she cooked an amazing meal. That for me was quite sweet. Lowest and highest amount of money you have ever been paid? I was once paid Sh120 for a job I did for two days. Highest was a figure with six zeros and it was work that I did for a month. The client was quite impressed. Best place you like to visit at your free time? My mother’s place. Nowhere like home. Worst advice you have ever received? You can never make it. Best childhood memories? We used to steal sugar from our neighbour’s shop. We did it regularly and the funny thing is we were never caught. Best  and worst work experience? Best would be meeting the expectations of my clients. Worst experience would be not getting paid for what I have worked for. Worst habits? I am a workaholic. Best way to relax? I love to travel and going for road trips. Hardest decision you ever made? Leaving some of my friends because they thought we were competing whereas we were all trying to beat poverty. Best advice you ever got? You are the best and you can do better. Lowest moment in your life? When my mum got sick a few years back. It was one of my lowest moments, but that’s when I also realised prayers work. What is your best physical feature? I love everything about my physical appearance and I thank God for creating me in his own image. Biggest addiction? Work.