Last season’s Kenya Basketball Federation (KBF) women’s league losing semi-finalist Strathmore University Swords beat stiff competition from University of Nairobi (UoN) Dynamites to pick a 59-46 win in Sunday match at Nyayo. In the highly competitive varsity derby, Swords dominated in all fronts in the first period of the match scoring 19 points against Dynamites’ nine. However, the latter would not take it lying down as they scored 14 holding their opponents to just eight points to cut the lead to four points into the breather. The second half went Swords’ way in both quarters winning 16-10 and 16-13 for the 13-point victory, their fifth of the season. The Ronnie Owino-coached sides are hoping for the same form in their remaining first leg matches. “We have not lost a match so far and that has been a result of better team work and improved team chemistry. The players are there for each other and there is good mentorship from the senior players,” said coach Owino. Swords made a comeback to the top four last season after beating Zetech Titans 2-1 in the quarter finals. They, however, went on to lose to eventual champions Equity Bank Hawks in the semis. Not in action “We lost one player, Valerie Oginga, to Tangit Sparks while four other players are currently not playing as they are in fourth year and awaiting graduation in June making it a busy period for them. I have youngsters replacing the five and so far they are doing me proud,” said Owino. Among those not in action for Swords is main point guard Barbra Ochieng and shooting guard Jackline Tinega. Those enlisted to take their place include debutants Eunice Ilong and Berly Katete who were playing for the team’s Division One side. Next on Owino’s plate is Africa Nazarene University (ANU) and holders Hawks this weekend. “ANU pose a threat to us as we have met during the universities league and they are a tough side. We will be cautious against them but Hawks, Kenya Ports Authority and Storms remain our toughest competitor,” Owino said. Meanwhile, leaders Hawks continued their good run as they thrashed Western Delight 86-21 in quarters of 25-4, 22-5, 17-6 and 22-6. On their part, Tangit Sparks threw away a chance to go top of the standings as they lost to Titans and ANU 50-39 and 67-62 respectively. Storms beat Dynamites 48-26 while Eagle Wings had subjected ANU to a 44-38 deaf befoe the latter picked a win against Sparks on Sunday.