This is the saddest part of football. A set of players who a generation has grown up watching, who convert soccer fans to love the game, will one day have to succumb to the pressure of time. Many legends bid farewell to the game in 2018, so will more this year. Take a look. 1. Petr Cech Arsenal goalkeeper Petr Cech announced in January that he will retire at the end of the season. The 36-year-old joined Arsenal in June 2015 from the London rivals Chelsea, where he spent 11 years. “Having played 15 years in the Premier League and won every single trophy possible, I feel like I have achieved everything I set out to achieve,” said the ex-Czech Republic international. Cech arrived in England when he was signed by Chelsea from French club Rennes in July 2004. He went on to win 13 trophies with the Stamford Bridge club, including one Champions League and four Premier League titles. 2. Arjen Robben Arjen Robben is considering retiring in June after confirming he will quit Bayern Munich when his contract with the defending Bundesliga champions expires. Robben, 36, confirmed to Kicker magazine that he will quit the Bavarian giants at the end of the season, saying: “That’s a fact. Of course it’s a big step, which you don’t just make in one day. I thought about it a lot and it feels good that it’s now out, also for the fans and the club.It was the right point in time.” The fleet-footed, injury-prone Dutch veteran, named Bundesliga player of the year after his first season in Germany in 2009/10, has won 19 titles so far with Bayern and collected his seventh German league title last May. 3. Xavi Hernandez Former Spain and Barcelona midfielder Xavi Hernandez has indicated he will retire from playing at the end of the season. Xavi has played for Qatari club Al Sadd since 2015 but is best known for his glittering career at Barca, where he won eight La Liga and four Champions League titles. “It’s going to be my last year, in January I’ll turn 39 and I think it’s time to say goodbye,” Xavi said in an interview with Spanish radio station Cadena Ser in November 2018.  Xavi was also instrumental in Spain’s unprecedented period of success between 2008 and 2012, when La Roja won the World Cup and the European Championships twice. 4. Robin van Persie Former Arsenal and Manchester United striker Robin van Persie has revealed he is likely to retire at the end of the season. The Dutchman enjoyed a stellar career in England, winning the FA Cup with Arsenal and a Premier League title at United. The 36-year-old moved back to his native Holland with Feyenoord this summer after a three-year stint in Turkey with Fenerbahce. “When I have to stop? That is probably at the end of this season,” he told AD. Van Persie is Arsenal’s third-most prolific Premier League goalscorer, netting 97, and eighth on the club’s list of highest scorers ever. 5. Andrea Barzagli Juventus defender Andrea Barzagli announced last month that he will retire from football at the end of the season. The Italian is approaching his 38th birthday and has decided to call time on a decorated 20-year career, having spent much of this season on the periphery. Barzagli, who began his career at lowly Rondinella, has spent the past eight years in Turin and has helped the club to re-establish their dominance over Italian football. An eighth Serie A title was sealed last month but he is unsure what his next step is at the moment. 6. Jonathan Walters Burnley striker Jonathan Walters announced his immediate retirement in March, citing ongoing Achilles tendon issues. The 35-year-old Republic of Ireland international confirmed on social media that his career is now over. He wrote on Twitter: “Isn’t it ironic…my Achilles heel has literally been my Achilles heel and finished me off! “I am now retired from playing football. It’s been epic. Veni vidi vici.” Best known for his seven-year spell at Stoke, Walters began his career at Blackburn before a 2001 move to Bolton. 7. Heurelho Gomes Watford second-choice goalkeeper Heurelho Gomes is hoping to keep to his place for the FA Cup final against Manchester City this month. The 38-year-old veteran Brazilian, who has started in the cup competitions this season, is likely to retire at the end of the campaign, meaning the cup final on May 18 would be his final game. Gomes, who earned 11 caps for Brazil, was a popular, if occasionally accident-prone, figure at Tottenham Hotspur after joining them in 2008 from Dutch club PSV Eindhoven before signing for Watford in 2014. 8. Micah Richards Former England defender Micah Richards is heading for retirement aged just 30.  Richards has tried hard to overcome long-term knee issues but has told friends of his intention to call it a day when his Aston Villa contract expires this summer. Richards has not played a senior game since being forced off injured during Steve Bruce’s first match in charge against Wolves on October 15, 2016, and despite undertaking tailored fitness sessions, he has been unable to come into Dean Smith’s thinking. 9. Matt Taylor Former Premier League player Matt Taylor confirmed in March his intention to retire from playing at the end of the current season. The 37-year-old, who is currently with League Two Swindon, announced the news in a statement on his Twitter feed. Taylor started his career at Luton and went on to play in the Premier League for Portsmouth, Bolton, West Ham and Burnley. 10. John O’Shea Former Manchester United defender John O’Shea will also retire at the end of this season after featuring for Championship club Reading. The Republic of Ireland international won five Premier League titles at Old Trafford, as well as the FA Cup and the Champions League. On Tuesday, his 38th birthday, O’Shea announced his retirement, having spent the final season of his playing career at Reading after a seven-year stint at Sunderland. As well as making nearly 400 appearances for United, O’Shea also played more than 100 times for Ireland.