Francis Muli @PeopleDailyKe The rising cost of living is becoming the new face of media reports everyday and it is not likely to change any time soon. It is time to learn how to adapt, after all life will not adapt to us, it is the other way round. The country has recently experienced high cost of petroleum products, which directly affects the cost of living. This is attributed to the rising price of crude oil in the international market. Kenya has not yet started producing own oil, making her a net importer of the ‘Black Gold’. Seemingly, we have no choice neither do we have control of prices. Floating another Sh203 billion Eurobond is not just any news we should read just for the sake of it. It is a wakeup call that things are not well, even to the government. Every Kenyan should roll their sleeves to face the monster of rising cost of living squarely. It is no longer a prediction, it is here! Tax increment is the next news. Your PAYE (pay-as-you-earn) will go up, as your salary goes down. You will also pay more tax as you buy goods whose prices will have shot up. Due to increased land rates, your landlord will increase rent as well as leaving the burden of water and electricity bills to you. You will fall for loans in which you will pay more interest, or even denied due to the capped interest rates and status of your bank statement. One thing you should do to avoid all these is living within your limits. In terms of housing, it is advisable that you live in your own house, where possible. If not, experts advise that your rent should not be more than 2.5 per cent of your monthly income. In advanced economies, landlords will not allow you to live in their houses if you do not earn 40 times or more of the rent. Most middle class earners in Kenya will pay as much as 50 per cent of their salaries just to live in the leafy suburbs. It is also important to cut spending that does not add value to your life. According to US multimillionaire and radio personality Dani Johnson, extra spending is the fat in your budget. This implies that just like the unnecessary fat in the body (which will cause lifestyle diseases like hypertension), the extra spending harms your financial life.