Administration Police (AP) officer Eric Musila, who has been undergoing trial for the murder of popular Kalenjin musician Diana Chelele, was Friday set free by the High Court in Naivasha. It was tears of joy for the accused and tears of pain for Chelele’s family as High Court judge Richard Mwongo accused the prosecution of shoddy work. Musila, whose case was transferred from the High Court in Kericho, had denied killing Chelele on the January 7, 2016 in Kapkwen Bomet county. In his ruling, the judge noted that the prosecution had failed to fill many gaps in the case adding that it was unsafe for the court to convict the accused based on the adduced evidence. He said the court had realised the glaring gaps adding that it was not his duty to fill them but that of the prosecution. Mwongo said the prosecution had failed to prove that the accused was at the scene of murder with two prosecution witnesses giving contradicting statements. “One witness said he saw the accused at the scene around midnight and at 100 metres away and it’s not possible to identify someone at that distance considering it was also dark,” he said. He noted that before her murder, Chelele was in constant contact with one Antony Ngari, a friend to the accused, adding that the prosecution failed to establish the relationship between the two. According to the judge, the prosecution should have investigated the relationship between the accused, the deceased and Ngari adding that this did not happen. “Hours before the deceased was murdered, she spoke over ten times with the said Ngari but for reasons better known to the prosecution they did not follow this up,” he said. He noted that communication evidence adduced in court proved that the accused was also in contact with Ngari but prosecution again failed to follow this. “It’s likely that the accused and the said Ngari conspired to murder Chelele but the prosecution failed to follow this line of investigation,” he said. Speaking outside the court, Chelele’s sister, Beatrice Cheney, told of their pain and disappointment after waiting for justice from the court. “We are still mourning the death of our sister and this has been made worse by the court ruling of which our hope lay on,” she said. Musila was last month found guilty of murdering an Eldoret-based surveyor Eliud Kipchirchir in 2012 by shooting him in the head. Elsewhere, four suspects accused of killing Dandora-based human rights activist Caroline Mwatha in February were Friday freed on bond. High Court  released Betty Akinyi, her son Dale Richard Ramoya, Michael Onchiri and Alexander Gitau but with a caution. The court ordered the suspects to refrain from going to a city clinic which is now considered the scene of crime as well as interfering with witnesses. The court said  the prosecution had failed to prove that there were compelling reasons to have the four detained pending trial of the murder case. The court directed the four to pay a cash bail of Sh300,000 or an alternative bond of Sh500,000 with two sureties of similar amount.