Fred Aminga @faminga The National Treasury and 600,000 individual shareholders will pocket Sh44.92 of Safaricom spoils once the telco, that posted record-shattering profits for 2018, shares proceeds. Treasury, which has 35 per cent shareholding in the firm that has grown to become Kenya’s most successful company in two decades, will bank Sh26.22 billion in dividends. Retail and institutional shareholders of the Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) listed firm, will walk home with Sh18.7 billion on account of their 25 per cent shareholding while Vodafone Kenyan Ltd, which owns 40 per cent, will pocket Sh29.97 billion. After posting a 14.4 per cent increase in net profit for the period ending March 31, 2019 to Sh63.4 billion, a 67 cents special dividend payout coupled with a Sh1.25 traditional dividend per share (DPS) settlement was announced. This brought total payout for ordinary shareholders to Sh1.87. Special dividend “The proposed dividend for the 2019 financial year is Sh50.08 billion, an increase of 13.6 per cent year on year. Given the strong position of the balance sheet, we are also happy to propose a special dividend for this year of Sh24.84 billion,” said Safaricom in a statement. Each of the firm’s shareholders is, therefore, expected to receive a piece of the Sh50.08 billion general dividend coupled with another Sh24.8 billion as part of the special dividend payout issued by the board. The telcos’ dividend to shareholders has been increasing since going public in 2008, despite a low of 30 cents averaged in the late 2000’s, to the current highs. The price of the firm’s stock have also risen to the current Sh29.25 from the Sh3.50 which was on offer during the company’s initial public offering (IPO). Analysis of the firm’s profitability since 2013 reveals that the profit of the company, which is among the most successful business in Africa, has been growing at an average of Sh7.3 billion per year. According to the telcos most recent report, the firm’s total revenue increased by 7.1 per cent to Sh250.96 billion as revenue from voice, M-Pesa, mobile data and fixed service grew. The performance of telco has puts other players on the spot, given the unfavourable microeconomics in the country. Other players Some of the local companies which have comparatively done well include KCB which posted Sh24 billion profit after tax. Equity Group posted Sh19.8 billion, Co-op Bank managed Sh18.2 billion while East Africa Breweries and Standard Chartered posted Sh7.3 billion and ShSh8.1 billion respectively. Speaking during the firm’s announcement of the 2018 end year results, Safaricom chief executive Bob Collymore observed that the telco has continued to grow ahead of the country’s gross domestic product (GDP) which stands at 6.3 per cent by “increasing our service revenue and raising our income”. Safaricom’s growth continued to leverage on a rise in uptake of M-Pesa and growth in the usage of data as the customer base increasingly migrate to the Internet, moving away from voice and data. Chief finance officer Sateesh Kamath estimated that M-Pesa grew at 19.2 per cent from the previous year, and, accounted for 75 per cent of the company’s growth for the year 2018. Collymore noted that M-Pesa recorded a new high with the introduction of Fuliza which has become the world’s first overdraft facility on mobile phone. “In January this year, nearly three centuries after the first overdraft approval in the world was recorded by the Royal Bank of Scotland, we launched Fuliza – the world’s first contextual mobile money overdraft facility,” said Collymore. Insufficient funds This idea was informed by frequent cancellations of M-Pesa transactions worth millions of shillings daily on insufficient funds in their mobile wallets. A month after launch, the telco had over four million customers transacting more than Sh6.2 billion. Within three months, it more than doubled the number of customers registered on Fuliza to 8.8 million, adding another Sh29 billion worth of transactions to the M-Pesa value chain. This number has since grown to more than Sh45 billion.