Sisters before misters! They are the unspoken rules of female interaction, that women must look out for each other, but do they? Grace Wachira and Sandra Wekesa @PeopleDailyKE You’ve heard of the ‘guy code’. A set of unspoken rules that men apply to their male family, best friends, acquaintances and usually other guys in general. You cannot hit on a friend’s girlfriend, date a friend’s sister, and you shouldn’t hit on a girl who is clearly with someone else. They use the age-old adage, ‘bros before hoes’ where no matter what happens, you must always have your guy friend’s back. Girls also have a girl code, or don’t they? If recent events making news headlines about girls stabbing their fellow girls in the back is anything to go by, girl code doesn’t seem to exist or has been thrown out of the window. Starting with the most recent events, one month ago, unsubstantiated accounts of what transpired before murder of Ivy Wangeci, a medical student at Moi University by her estranged lover, Naftali Kinuthia. In pursuit of what really prevailed on that fateful day, investigating officers have allegedly listed Ivy’s best friend as a state witness for her hand in Ivy’s murder. Quoting sources at the DCI, K24 TV indicated that Kinuthia had travelled to Moi University on a Friday to meet his lover. While meeting Ivy, he was introduced to her best friend with whom they exchanged contacts. Soon after, Ivy allegedly switched off her phone effectively blocking Kinuthia from contacting her. It is this act that would infuriate him into a rage that saw the medic student’s life terminated prematurely. Kinuthia was reportedly in communication with Ivy’s best friend who throughout the day tipped him of Ivy’s movements on the day of the murder. Another recent incident that rocked us and relating to the girl code is the alleged murder of Mary Wambui by her husband’s mistress, Judy Wangui. Judy who was once an employee of Mary went behind her back and got into a relationship with her husband and one day in what seemed like a calculated move,  invited Mary to a late lunch and eventually killed her. Trending news on the global scene has also been shining light on just how much the girl code continues to be violated. Last month, rumours emerged  of an alleged feud between Kate Middleton, Duchess of Cambridge, and longtime friend Rose Hanbury. Reports suggested that their friendship ended because Prince William was allegedly cheating on the Duchess with her former friend. Girl code just like guy code, is the unspoken laws of female interaction, a deep and ancient understanding that one will always pass toilet paper under the cubicle door, and always, always let a fellow female know if she has sukuma
wiki
lodged between her teeth. Whether the rules are implicit or explicit, they are generally what can make or break a friendship. But this new world is tilting on its axis, a fellow woman will grin behind your back as you walk into a meeting with food littered throughout your teeth. Betrayed “I thought she was my friend, turns out she was the one telling my husband bad things about me,” says Wayua Waihiga of her longtime best friend. Deeply hurt, she decided to cut off the toxic friendship. Veronica Lewa says she always abides by the girl code, “Starting from secondary school, I would never snitch on my friend for faking illness,” she says, “Girl Code means alerting someone immediately if they have spots on the back of their dress, something funny going on with their hairdo, I would say something like ‘Is your hair meant to look like that? Oh. Yeah. Cool. No, I like it!’, or a wayward pantyline, too much perfume. Fiona Atieno, a sociologist, says   although women claim to live by the girl code, they are always constantly breaking it. She says most of it is built on jealousy, loose morals or just lack of respect. “It is called schadenfreude, which basically is the hatred you feel towards one another due to progression in life,” she says adding, “Women are each others’ enemies. If the girl code is to be salvaged, they should work past hatred and bad energy because a break in girl code can be minor, and sometimes it can end a friendship.”