If you haven’t realised already, the Easter holidays are arguably the longest holiday in the calendar. It is five days long. Our first option was at the Maji Magic at the Waterfront mall in Karen. After all, the place has a man-made lake exclusively for water sports. We drove to the Waterfront and most of my family members were freaked out about how big the lake was and they chickened out and so we left and we passed around the Ngong area, stopping for lunch at a place called the ‘Ofis’ car wash at Embulbul.  The place has the most authentic, juicy roast goat meat ever. I have never had any quite like it. On the recommendation of a friend that we try the Arena, we took a thirty-minute drive to the Two Rivers mall. This is a relatively new establishment in the mall, resembling an amusement park. Well, it is actually. We got there at around four in the afternoon when the crowd was at its peak. This is the first time we all had gone for paintballing. I really had no idea what to expect. Luckily all of us were in comfortable casual clothes.  The paintball arena is usually an open area with different barriers to hide behind. At Sh1,500 per person, it covers 100 paint balls and the protective gear. We were to play for an hour. For prep, we were taken through the rules and regulations by the marshal. We were then armed with the paintball marker (gun loaded with paintballs), safety goggles, and the body armour. We were then divided into two teams, the mangoes and the avocados. The main goal is to eliminate the other team with the paintballs. The avocado team was a group of young guys who didn’t have an opponent since they were few, so were merged. If a paintball hits one team member and the colour splashes, you are out and the game continues until all teams run out of paintballs. It was time for me to shine in this area. I enjoy playing video games more particularly grand Theft Auto so I thought this would be a walk in the park. Our friend, Jes, was really good at it and he rarely missed a valuable shot at the opponents. He had serious shooting skills. We knew we would ace the game. On this day, it had just rained like an hour before, so one of the playing zones was out. It was decidedly muddy, but the marshals made sure the game was fair. At some point, my gun jammed and I hit my opponent twice, but he completely ignored my shots. Those were some points we lost there. I made a wrong move and boom! Splat! There was a red smudge on my overalls.  That’s how I got eliminated, but I had been in the game for close to 45 minutes, so I didn’t feel too bad. I really thought this would be my game, but I guess I thought wrong. At the end of the game, the team avocado team won by five points. Consoling ourselves that we had tried as a bunch of beginners. The game was super tiring from all the running about and trying to dodge the paintballs. Overall everyone had a great day and couldn’t stop talking about it on our way home. It’s a fun-filled activity, plus the staff there is kind and helpful. Would I be back? Oh yes and this time I’ll be much better.