Addis Ababa, Thursday South Sudan’s rival parties began two days of talks in Addis Ababa on Thursday in a bid to salvage a peace deal, with just days left before a unity government is meant to be formed. President Salva Kiir, rebel leader Riek Machar and a handful of other groups inked the peace deal in September 2018, the latest in a string of efforts to end a devastating conflict now in its sixth year. But the parties have failed to resolve several crunch issues before a power-sharing government is to be installed on May 12. Representatives of the parties gathered in Addis for a meeting called by the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), a regional bloc for East Africa, holding prayers before going into a closed session. Government has insisted the meeting focus on how to push forward with the formation of the unity government. Machar’s camp, though, wants a six-month delay to resolve security and other issues that, it says, prevent him from making his return. “There are key issues not implemented according to the matrix of the revitalized peace agreement,” Kang Pal Chol, a senior member of Machar’s SPLM-IO party, told journalists at the start of the meeting. “We’ve proposed a timeline that for these key issues to be implemented, we need this six months for us to achieve the unfinished business.” “We expect the meeting to come out with the solution as the 12th of May is approaching. We expect the leaders of South Sudan will come to their senses and agree on what will move the country forward.” South Sudan’s information minister, Michael Makuei, told journalists that “if the government wasn’t ready for the May 12 deadline, we wouldn’t have come here.” Coup accusation South Sudan’s war broke out two years after independence, after Kiir accused his Machar, his former vice president, of plotting a coup against him. Battles between members of Machar’s Nuer community and Kiir’s Dinka people were characterised by brutal violence on both sides, rape and UN warnings about “ethnic cleansing”. -AFP