DPPs and Tom Rachuonyo @PeopleDailyKe Deputy President William Ruto  yesterday asked church leaders to embrace savings and credit co-operative societies (saccos) to improve their financial status. Speaking at his Karen residence when he hosted more than 4,000  faithful of the African Divine Church (ADC) for the launch of African Divine Clergy Sacco, Ruto said the government would continue to support religious organisations. Mobilise resources “You should come up with a programme of raising funds and later take loans,” he said. He said saccos mobilise resources for the development of the country and urged churches to be part of the mobilisation efforts. “Saccos in Kenya have raised Sh500 billion and we want you as the Church to join in the mobilisation of local resources through saccos so that we can fund our development,” he said. The church leaders asked Ruto and other politicians present not to shy away from participating in the development of churches. Archbishop John Chabuga said  clerics would continue to cooperate with leaders in the development of places of worship.  “We will work closely with leaders on matters of church development,” he said. Legislators present said they would ignore those criticising their contributions in churches. “We will continue to participate in the development of churches,” said Kandara MP Alice Wahome. Her Langata counterpart Nixon Korir said the decision to accept or reject church offerings should be left to the Church, and told politicians to keep off. “Let the Church manage its affairs and leave politics out of the church,” he said. Others present were MPs Mwambu Mabonga (Bumula), Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu), Mary Wamaua (Maragua), Malulu Injendi (Malava), Bernard Shinali (Ikolomani), Benjamin Washiali (Mumias East), John Waluke (Sirisia), Oscar Sudi (Kapseret) and former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale. Meanwhile, the Deputy President’s defence of Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu on audit queries continued to draw criticism yesterday. Waititu defence Several legislators accused Ruto of trying to shield Waititu from justice for political expedience. They were MPs Mishi Mboko (Likoni), Eve Obara (Kabondo Kasipul), Woman Reps Gladys Wanga (Homa Bay), Ruweida Obbo (Lamu) Fatima Gedi (Wajir) and Christine Ombaka (Siaya). They were speaking in Magunga market in Homa Bay county during the opening of a modern market by Ida Odinga, wife of ODM leader Raila Odinga.