The Court of Appeal has resolved the long-standing ownership dispute of the expansive Kigwa Estate in Kiambu county and declared that families of three brothers are equal beneficiaries. The court dismissed an appeal by Nishith Yogendra Patel, who claimed to be the sole proprietor of the farm and the family residence in Nairobi West, against his cousins Pascale Mireilee Baksh and Nilesh Prahladbai Patel. “We think this is a case of a party trying by any means or routes to divest or disinherit genuine and registered proprietors,” Appellate judges Mohamed Warsame, Patrick Kiage and Agnes Murgor said. They said discontentment, greed, sense of entitlement and lack of accommodation resulted in the family dispute taking more than a decade to resolve. Surrender to greed “This appeal and the preceding protracted litigation bear the imprimatur of family and human tragedy brought about by a deficit of honesty, a surrender to greed, a lionisation of pride, and a heedless pursuit of egotistical satisfaction at any cost,” the judges pointed out. “All that is compounded by the fact that the three parties before us, the children of their fathers—three brothers who are now long dead—rejected outright our entreaties that in the name of family, in the memory of their fathers and for the sake of amity, they ought to do all within their powers to seek an amicable settlement,” the Appeal judges said. “There is little doubt that the three brothers and their respective families were all engaged in the affairs of Kigwa Farm,” they pointed out. Nishith had appealed against the dismissal of the suit filed by his father, Yogendra Pusshottam Patel, by Appellate judge Erastus Githinji (while sitting in the High Court) on March 13, 2006. The suit was against Pascale, the daughter and administrator of the estate of Rajnikant Purshottam Patel and Nilesh Purshottam Patel, the son and administrator of the estate of Prahladbhai Purshottam Patel. Interestingly, Nishith had also sued his own mother, Chanchabhen Purshotam Patel but she died on March 8, 1995. The two defendants, Pascale and Nilesh, had denied the ownership claims by Nishith and maintained the three brothers jointly bought the house and farm and they were entitled to a third of the properties. The brothers had raised funds to purchase the properties and used their income to develop them, they had argued. They had filed counter-claims seeking income and proceeds from the partnership of Kigwa Estate. They asked that the properties be sold and the money shared equally among the three families. Income accruing Justice Githinji had said the two other families were entitled to income accruing out of the house and farm from the date of the deaths of their patriarchs. Nishith was directed to file books of accounts since 1991. The judge had directed that Pascale was at liberty to sell her one-third share in the house and farm to both or one of the co-owners as first priority or to any close family member. 