Irene Githinji @gitshee The Kenya National Union of Teachers (Knut) has turned down an invite to attend the launch of national curriculum policy this morning. Knut secretary General Wilson Sossion said the union will not be part of what he termed the launch of illegal policy. In a letter to Education Cabinet secretary Prof George Magoha dated May 14, Sossion said their conscience does not allow them to participate in a flawed exercise, which he claimed lacks legitimacy and where there was no public participation as the Constitution requires. “The union looks forward for your office to put in order the curriculum review process before it is too late,” said Sossion. He also claimed the ministry purported to have participated in development of Sessional Paper No 1 of 2019 on a policy framework for reforming education and training for sustainable development in Kenya. The unionist said the ministry had previously indicated that the National Curriculum policy was included to guide implementation of Competence Based Curriculum (CBC) reform process.“Knut will not be used to validate an illegal policy, whose development is surrounded in mystery… today is a different narrative, inviting the union for the launch,” Sossion wrote. Adding: “This is like putting a cart before the horse. You are launching the policy when the train has already left the station.” Sossion said it is the same exercise that led to arbitral interdiction of over 200 teachers for boycotting in the flawed CBC training exercise. The union has been opposed to CBC right from its roll-out and has repeatedly called for its suspension. Sossion has been insisting that the new system of education has been tried in many countries across the world and has failed to work effectively. Insisting that teachers will not support it, the Knut boss wondered why the government hurriedly implemented it without consulting relevant stakeholders. The union has been reading mischief owing to the manner in which the programme was being implemented claiming some individuals in government were behind it.