James Magayi and Fred Likuyani @PeopleSports11 For a second successive year, AFC Leopards could find themselves handing bitter rivals Gor Mahia the SportPesa Premier League title after Nzoia Sugar slowed down K’Ogalo’s celebrations by recording a shock 1-0 win at Mumias Complex yesterday. Gor needed a win to claim a record-extending 18th league title ahead of Sunday’s ‘Mashemeji Derby’ but Nzoia conspired to spoil the party when Hansel Ochieng struck in the 32nd minute to hand the hosts a 1-0 win. Gor coach Hassan Oktay opted to rotate his side, starting with Francis Mustafa and Erisa Ssekisambu in attack supported by George Odhiambo and Philemon Otieno while top scorer Jacques Tuyisenge and Nicholas Kipkurui started on the bench. Counter-attack K’Ogalo expressed their intentions early and thought they had taken the lead in the 22nd minute only for Ssekisambu’s effort to be ruled out for offside. Ten minutes later, Nzoia launched an electrifying counter-attack, led by Stephen Etyang, who was later fouled on the edge of the box, resulting in a free-kick which Ochieng converted. After the break, Oktay introduced Tuyisenge for Mustafa and Lawrence Juma for Benard Ondiek but the changes did not yield much as the hosts stayed resolute in defence. The result means Gor, who have a 10-point lead over second-placed Sofapaka with four matches remaining, will need to beat Leopards to retain their title. Leopards also suffered 1-0 defeat in the hands of KCB yesterday and it will be interesting to see how they respond, especially with memories of last season still fresh after a 2-0 loss to Gor handed K’Ogalo a 17th title. It was KCB’s second win over Leopards this season, continuing Ingwe’s recent slump following draws against Sony Sugar and Zoo FC and a 2-0 loss to Mathare United. Meanwhile, the public outcry following selection of Kariobangi Sharks third-choice goalkeeper Brian Bwire into Harambee Stars provisional squad for the Africa Cup of Nations must have taken a toll on the teenager as he conceded twice in a 2-0 loss to Sony in Awendo. Zoo fight back The 18-year-old got the nod to start ahead of John Oyemba and Gad Mathews but the gamble backfired as Bwire was directly at fault for the second goal that killed off Sharks’ late fightback. In Kericho, Zoo stewards were involved in an ugly altercation with Western Stima technical banch one hour before kick-off. The stewards objected to their visitors setting up cones on the pitch to help players warm up and a melee ensued when Stima staff tried to force their way. The hosts were then made to fight back from a goal down to win 2-1.