In the final instalment of a three-part series PATRICK MWANGI talks to the Higher Education Loans Board CEO Charles Ringera on the perceived insensitivity in negatively listing graduates struggling to pay their university loans. Excerpts. QUESTION: At what point does Helb refer a borrower to CRB? ANSWER: Credit Reference Bureau Regulations of 2013 were formulated with a view to streamlining individual credit rating. It is against this background that Helb, being a credit provider, shares loanees’ particulars with CRBs. The credit details shared are for both performing and non-performing loans. Helb shares information with CRBs one year after completion of studies. Q: How does Helb make the determination that the borrower is refusing to pay and requires to be referred to CRB? A: Helb regularly sends communication to loanees through various channels including SMS, emails, letters as well as notices in newspapers and Helb social media pages. The communication encourages loanees to engage Helb on repayment options and plans as well as reminding them that their loans are due for repayment after a grace period of one year after completion of studies. After the one year grace period, Helb sends reminders to the loanee for a period of not less than six months after which the loan is deemed non-performing. CRB Regulation 50 (1)  (a) requires a financial institution to notify the customer one month before submitting a non-perfoming loan to a bureau. In the event the customer does not initiate repayment within 30 days, the loan is negatively listed on CRB and the customer is duly informed. Loanees can, however, talk to us so that we can agree on a minimum reasonable rate that will reduce their outstanding loan. Penalties are levied as per the Helb Act. Full disclosure on employment by the loanee is therefore key to negotiating and coming up with an amicable solution. Q: How many borrowers has Helb referred to CRB? A: So far, 424,800 loanees have been listed with CRBs. Of the figure, 273,377 have positive credit listing while 151,423 are negatively listed. Those who are negatively listed can engage Helb on how to start servicing their loans. Q: Does Helb remove a defaulter’s name from CRB as soon as the default is discharged? A: Upon confirmation of initiation or resumption of repayment, the credit information of the borrower is updated immediately through an online uploading process in the CRB portal. The customer is then informed of the batch numbers submitted to the CRBs. Q: Why are there cases of borrowers who have finalised payments yet they are still negatively listed with CRBs? A: Helb is committed to timely updates of CRB status. However, delays may be occasioned when beneficiaries pay directly to Helb bank accounts without providing their full details. CRBs also have varied timelines for updating information that we have shared with them, therefore, once a customer alerts us of any anomaly, we promptly update their CRB status. Q: What would you say has been the impact of Helb referring its borrowers to CRB? A: In the 2018/19 financial year, the repayment as a result of sharing loanees’ particulars with CRB was Sh18 million from 2,452 loanees. Helb has also positively listed 273,377 loanees which will help them build a good credit score.The possibility of a negative listing has deterred loanees from defaulting. This is not just about loan repayment as a statutory obligation, it is also an issue of integrity.  Loan repayment is reflection of honesty and high moral character in an individual’s professional and personal life; it is also an indication of respect for statutory obligations arising under various Acts of Parliament. It is inconceivable that a person whose dreams were empowered through a Helb loan can willfully fail to repay their loan. It is not only an illegality but also wrongful conduct and can be construed as misuse of public resources.