This week a group of  cheerful elder statesmen gathered in Lusaka, Zambia to mark the 95th birthday of Kenneth Kaunda, the country’s founding President. Among those in the exalted company were ex-presidents Omar Mwinyi (Tanzania) Joaquim Chisano (Mozambique), Festus Mogae (Botswana), Sam Nujoma (Namibia), Bakili Muluzi (Malawi) and Hifikepunye Pohamba (Namibia). The growing number of former African leaders, more so those who left office honourably, is the pride of the continent. A few others would have made the distinguished gathering of worthy peers; our duo of Daniel arap Moi and Mwai Kibaki, Ian Khama (Botswana), Ben Mkapa and Jakaya Kikwete (Tanzania), Eduardo Dos Santos (Angola),Thabo Mbeki (South Africa) and Hailemariam Desalegn (Ethiopia). Overstay welcome More critically, this constellation also served to remind Africa that this revered family could have been bigger, but because some leaders opted to overstay their welcome, their presence, even if they had been in a position to  attend, would have rendered them square poles in round holes. I’m talking about Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe and Abdelaziz Bouteflika  of Algeria and, more recently, Omar al-Bashir (Sudan) who missed out on the party because of the ignominy of their exit. Free fall Decades at the helm condemned them, initially subjecting them to gradual depletion of appeal, then free fall, prompting their people to take to the streets to reclaim their liberty and restore constitutionalism. The slide in the fortunes of Mugabe, Bouteflika and Bashir, and before them Hosni Mubarak and Muammar Gaddafi, that ultimately stripped them of respectability need not have happened. Unfortunately they allowed themselves to be victims of delusion hinged on a  fallacy that, with the forces of coercion behind them, they could lord it over their people in perpetuity. It’s a path that previously drenched Africa with blood from military coups and upheavals, deflecting the continent from a growth trajectory, muddying the continent’s political and ethical values and most regrettably, entrenching misery. Transition is  an indisputable fact of life. No leader should feel they are irreplaceable. Those who think otherwise embrace exclusion, intolerance and become averse to  accountability. Inevitably, such leaders expose themselves to humiliation. Bashir would not be in prison today if he had not caused the socioeconomic and political vagaries associated with his long autocratic rule. African Renaissance In 1996, then South African President Thabo Mbeki sought to rally Africa to a renewal of values as a  response to the litany of crises that confront the continent. The ideological framework of Mbeki’s views were crystallised in his “African Renaissance” call. Mbeki’s call to reconfigure Africa’s human conditions found a cogent rollout in the African Peer Review Mechanism (APRM) in 2003. The peer review mechanism envisaged self-monitoring initiative to promote good governance as way to initially implement the Millennium Development Goals and later foster implementation of Sustainable Development Goals. Self-monitoring does not entail sweeping dirt under the carpet. Peers openly reviewing whether development goals are being met and if not, why. It entails Africans acknowledging that universal standards in human rights, democracy and corporate governance apply to humanity in its entirety and Africans can not be stuck to lesser standards. The mantra of non-interference in internal affairs of sovereign states has in too many aspects been misapplied with peers looking the other way as leaders subvert the rule of law, sidestep democratic ideals and commit atrocities on their people. Kenya was among the first three countries to subject themselves to peer review in 2006 and the first to  undertake second review in 2017 as President Uhuru Kenyatta chaired the African Union’s APRM committee. Term limits Once the continent embraces instruments that promote the rule of law and seek to promote prosperity as the peer review mechanism envisages, there should be no need for shifting of goal posts on matters such as presidential term limits. Leaders should  allow emergence of understudies and inclusive structures entrenched in the constitutions that allow smooth succession. The plight of deposed and humiliated leaders must start to mean something to every leader on this continent. It’s because of their dignified exit and fidelity to constitutionalism that Kaunda, Chisano, Nujoma, Mogae, Mwinyi, Muluzi and Pohamba were joined by Zambia’s President Edgar Lungu to celebrate Kaunda.