PD Team @PeopleDailyKe Deputy President William Ruto yesterday appeared to endorse the Speaker of the National Assembly Justin Muturi for position of Embu governor in the 2022 election. Speaking in Kigari, Embu during a prayer service for Manyatta MP John Muchiri, Ruto said Muturi had a wide experience in national leadership. “Hakikosa ile anatafuta, nitawalaumu nyinyi wabunge,” “(If he fails to get the position he is aspiring for, I will blame you MPs),” he said. Muturi was among several leaders at the function. Kiambu budget Others were Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu, Embu Senator Njeru Ndwiga, MPs Cecily Mbarire (Nominated), Geoffrey King’ang’i (Mbeere South) and Charles Muriuki (Mbeere North). Earlier, Ruto defended Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu from criticism over unexplained items in the county budget, including supposed  spending of more than Sh1 billion on national government functions. Speaking at a church service in Kiambu, Ruto said Waititu had nothing to do with the functions he was being accused of funding. “I am surprised that people are asking Waititu to explain his government’s involvement in State House budget, South Sudan peace process funding and perks for retired presidents. Let’s ask Waititu issues about his Kiambu government,” he said. According to audited financial statements for 2017/18, Waititu who was on Thursday grilled by the Senate’s Public Accounts and Investments Committee, allocated money purportedly for State House affairs, retired presidents’ upkeep, South Sudan peace talks and Free Primary Education. Earlier, Waititu disclosed that the Council of Governors had summoned the Auditor General and the Controller of Budget to explain where they got what he called “foreign papers” tabled at the committee grilling. Waititu claimed he was being set up by his opponents for working closely with the Deputy President. “These Kieleweke people wananichorea vile nitasama but it should dawn on them that I only fear God and hot porridge,” he said. But even as he defended himself, Kiambu Woman Rep Gathoni Wa Muchomba gave him 14 days to explain “weird” expenditure in county’s financial statement. Kaa Sober She threatened to lead residents to close down Waititu’s office. Speaking at Athi village in Juja where she donated Sh2 million worth of chicks to cluster groups, Wa Muchomba accused Waititu of using his office to enrich himself. “This man will milk us to the grave,” said Wa Muchomba. She claimed the governor had misappropriated millions of shillings allocated to the Kaa Sober initiative. Meanwhile, Ruto said no amount of criticism would prevent him from making financial contributions to churches. Ruto said his donations to churches was his way of thanking God for lifting him up from humble beginnings. “If it were not for God, do you think a person like me who used to hawk chicken would have become the Deputy President of Kenya?” he asked when he addressed the congregation at Komothai Catholic Parish in Githunguri, Kiambu. —Reporting by Clement Kamau, Mathew Ndung’u, Oliver Musembi and DPPS.