Which is your latest gadget and what do you about love it? My Laptop MacBook Pro Core i5. I bought it in December last year. I love it because I am able to keep my data securely without interference. How does it help in your work? It helps me when I want to review some notes and also entertains me in different ways such as music, research, etc. The gadget you wouldn’t trade for anything? My hard disk, because all my music and playlists I use in deejaying are saved there. Your worst gadget ever and why? A Nokia 3310, it wasn’t advanced in terms of technology. I bought it for Sh7,000 and even now I still feel like I wasted that money. I had to upgrade because I could not survive with that kind of phone. Which among your gadgets do you value most and how much did it cost? That must be my laptop Macbook pro. It cost me Sh95,000 but it is worth every cent of that amount. -Which gadget do you use most and why? My iPhone 6s, because it is portable and productive. Which app do you use mostly on your phone and why? The Mixcloud app because it helps me find the latest songs plus their albums. With it, I can also stream my DJ sets to the world. It is 100 per cent legal, to start with, meaning as a DJ I needn’t worry about my work being taken down. It is also one of the more reliable names in the industry, meaning the chances of it just disappearing one day are relatively low. What would you be if you were a gadget? A drone since in military combat a drone is used sometimes to ensure that pilots are not at risk. I love saving lives and if technology can be used for such missions I would be more than happy to be  part of it. The gadget you can’t live without and why? A phone. This is because it is the best way to communicate anywhere as long as there is a good network. If you were to upgrade one of your most valued gadgets, what would you opt for and why? My laptop and make the security protocol harder to crack. I cannot decide on which one though. While shopping for gadgets, do you look for, brand or output? Brand because the best brands must produce good gadgets like the “APPLE PRODUCTS!” That gadget you always wish you had. A turntable, the pioneer PLX-1000.