East Africa’s Got Talent Show by Safaricom kicked off its pre-auditions, at Nyali School, Mombasa County. The gates were opened to the public as from 6.00am which saw hundreds of participants turn up from diverse cultures, social background and age set showcasing their talents with the hope of been selected and proceed to the next stage to be held in Nairobi. The Nairobi auditions will be held next month at the KICC on June 1 and 2. “We believe East Africa has a lot of talent and look forward to showing the world what amazing skills we have got. We encourage all those who believe they are talented from Tanzania, Kenya, Rwanda and Uganda to pre-register online. We are searching for the best talent in music, dance, comedy, magic and acrobatics across all ages,” said Joseph Kusaga, Chief Executive Officer at Clouds Media International. Produced by Clouds Media International, the show will host auditions in three other countries; Uganda, Tanzania and Rwanda. In Uganda the pre-auditions will take place in Kampala on May 19 at Pearl of Africa Hotel while in Rwanda they will be held in Kigali on May 25 at Intare Arena. Finally, in Tanzania they will be in Dar es Salaam on May 25 and 26 at Julius Nyerere Centre. Interested participants are required to send in their applications through pre-auditions walk-ins, online submissions and WhatsApp channel. To pre-register, participants can go to the regional audition centers nearest to them. For those who are unable to physically attend the pre-auditions due to distance; they can enter on-line by filling out the application form and send a short video clip of their act on https://rapidblue.formstack.com/forms/eagt. Alternatively, they can upload a one minute performance video accompanied by name, age, and country through WhatsApp number + 254 (0)703 437 903. Registration is currently open and will close on the dates as follows; Kenya and Uganda on Saturday May 18, Rwanda Friday, May 24, and Tanzania Saturday, May 25. East Africa’s Got Talent by Safaricom which is due to start airing in August this year, will have 10 episodes, with the semifinals and grand finalé shot live on location in Kenya. Qualified participants from Tanzania, Uganda and Rwanda will travel to Kenya for the live shows. The winner will walk away with Sh5 million as voted by the audience.