People tend to believe they can control their finances, but sometimes the situation gets overwhelming and they need to reach out for help. Avoiding too much debt really revolves around personal responsibility. Here are tips that could help borrowers to stay out of debt bondage according to Financial Insight: 1. Ask for Help The first thing you should do when escaping a debt trap is to ask for help. Don’t convince yourself that you have to do this all on your own.  Seek help from a personal finance expert; talk to your friends and family members who are good with money. The last thing you want to do is end up with even more debt plus a ruined relationship. 2. Stop spending money you don’t have As you strategise on how to get out of debt, take a look at where you’ve spent money over the past couple months and figure out why you are spending beyond your means. For some, this step will be easy, as the debt they’re carrying will have been from a one-time emergency. For others, this will mean making serious adjustments to their lifestyle. If you need to change your spending habits, then go ahead make them fast. 3. Craft (and stick to) a budget With a budget, you can stop frivolous spending rule your life. Instead, you’ll make a plan for where your money is going to go. Take your last three months of expenses, then separate your needs from your wants, or things like rent that you must pay versus things like entertainment you can cut out. Prioritising your needs over your wants is the key to a good budget, especially when you need to reduce excess debt. The more you can put towards savings and debt repayment, the better off you will be. 4. Make a debt repayment plan If you try and pay your debt without a plan, you are setting yourself to failure. So don’t do that. Instead, make a plan that is both reasonable and that leaves you with head room in case an unexpected bill emerges.  The two best debt repayment plans out there are the Debt Snowball and the Debt Avalanche methods. Most people prefer the Debt Avalanche method because it means paying off your highest interest debts first, but that can take a while. The Debt Snowball, on the other hand, focuses on paying off your smallest debt first. 5. Build an emergency fund Throwing all your money towards debt repayment is all well and good, but it does come with a big downside: If you don’t have any money in savings, you’ll have to take on more debt any time a surprise expense comes your way. The way to avoid that is to simultaneously build an emergency fund. While this might slow down your debt repayments somewhat, the financial security it will provide is well worth it. 6. Pay yourself first This is a simple but powerful financial lesson. Paying yourself first means putting your long-term financial needs before everything else. In this case, you should figure out how much you want to put into savings and towards debt repayment every month. Once you have those numbers in mind, only then do you turn your attention towards building the rest of your budget.  You might call this the financial masterpiece since when building these savings into your budget, and the money will come. 7. Be careful with debt consolidation One way to pay down your debt is to consolidate all your different debts into one single loan . But debt consolidation comes with dangers all its own, especially with credit cards. Using a zero percent APR (Annual Percentage Rate) offer on a credit card to consolidate your debt can make your debt payments lighter, but what about all those old cards? One needs to be careful, and keep those old credit cards in a place where they are not easily accessible. 8. Increase your income The faster you can get out of debt, the more money you will save in interest payments.  The only other option, then, is to increase your income. You can do this by taking on a second job or a fruitful side hustle. The one thing you’ll want to watch out for is overwork and burnout. If you are not able to swing a side gig, you can look for a better, higher-paying job, or ask your boss for a promotion. 9. Avoid predatory loans For people with bad credit, tight budgets and meagre savings, emergency expenses often mean taking out more debts to make ends meet. Lenders offering short-term loans or cash advances with ridiculously high annual interest rates will likely drive you even deeper into the debt hole.  They could leave you stuck in a vicious cycle of debt, where you keep making payments without ever getting closer to paying your loan off. 10. Fix your credit score If you have spent years trapped in debt, the odds are good that your credit score is in the tank.  But do not get overconfident! A better score will help you borrow money with better terms and at lower rates, so order a free copy of your credit report and see where exactly your score can be improved. Here’s a tip: If your years in debt caused any late or missed payments, make sure you make all your payments on time moving forward. The only credit score component more vital than your amounts owed is your payment history.