The intrigues, back-stabbing and apparent open defiance among members of the Judicial Service Commission (JSC) could compromise its effectiveness as the cog that drives the Judiciary. Consensus on key issues, especially disciplinary cases involving judges, has been evasive, hampering the expeditious resolution of several pending matters. It is against this background that mistrust catalysed by deep vested interests— both within and outside a Judiciary that Supreme Court judge Njoki Ndung’u survived allegations of misconduct. Njoki and Supreme Court colleague Jackton Ojwang’ had faced a petition by lawyer Apollo Mboya for misconduct. Off the hook But yesterday, after two-day stormy meeting chaired by Chief Justice David Maraga who is the President of the Supreme Court and JSC chairman, Justices Njoki and Ojwang’ were left off the hook after Mboya inexplicably dropped his petition. He had written to JSC Secretary and the Chief Registrar of the Judiciary, Anne Amadi, declining to appear before the commission on March 14, protesting about the delay in handling his petition. “The complaint in which I am now invited to appear before the JSC was lodged on October 21, 2015. The JSC, for reasons that have not been communicated to me, chose not to attend to the complaint for over three years,” he said. Mboya reiterated that every person, including Justices Ojwang and Ndung’u, enjoyed the right to fair administrative action that was expeditious, efficient, lawful and reasonable. “This is to notify you that I respectfully decline the invitation to appear before the JSC on March 14, 2019 and I urge the JSC to strive to operate within the provisions and spirit of the law,” he said in a letter copied to the two judges. The decision to let off Njoki left the public puzzled, considering that similar petitions had been filed against the judge, who is perceived to be a close ally of her embattled colleague.  Ojwang and Njoki have had previous confrontations with the JSC, including pending court cases in the High Court, but her possible fall from grace to grass caused jitters. Three other High Court judges; Njagi Marete, Martin Muya and Lucy Waithaka were not so lucky. The JSC had recommended to the President to form a tribunal to adjudicate their matters— and if found guilty, they will be removed from the court. And yesterday, the CJ twice publicly refuted press reports that Njoki’s issue had divided the commissioners. “In fact the issue touching on Justice Njoki took the least time,” Justice Maraga said yesterday when he announced that the commission had finally marked as withdrawn, the petition lodged against Justices Njoki and Ojwang by lawyer Mboya on October 21, 2015. Pending cases But watchers of the ongoings at the JSC, the employer of all Judiciary personnel, including judges say it is a house divided. “It is quite obvious that the JSC is a divided house. Some of its members have taken hardline stances. There is no unanimity or harmony in its operations,” a source privy to the commission’s proceedings told People Daily. “There is an unseen force trying to strangle the Judiciary. There is apathy in the corridors of justice. There are at least five powerful voices in the JSC who are out to prove a point”. Interestingly, only  Maraga provides formal briefs about the commission’s deliberations and normally flanked by a few members. None of the other 10 members, including Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu, have addressed the press. Lately, the commissioners have been assembling at the Reinsurance Plaza offices in Nairobi where Justice Maraga joins them but pressmen are locked out. After the closed-door proceedings, they leave separately. One of the major complaints about the JSC has been that the accusations against judges keep mutating even after the petitioners have formally withdrawn the charges. “The JSC committee meetings have turned out to be theatres of the absurd. Some of the commissioners insist that the matters must be heard to their logical conclusions,” the source said. There is a plethora of pending disciplinary cases, which have forced judges to abandon their workstations in the countryside and travel to Nairobi for the hearings. Then the delay in concluding them has taken a toll on the productivity of the affected judicial officers.