Recently, Tanzanian songbird Nandy unveiled a new album titled The African Princess in Nairobi. Besides her vocal and dance prowess, she also showcased her stylish side. The 26-year-old had a sit-down with Chebet Korir to talk all about her style How can you describe your style? Being the African princess, most of the time I pay attention to casual African print. In fact, in three words I can describe my style as fresh, African and casual. What are the colours that you are currently into? Honestly, I am all rounded, but I prefer yellow and white. You can play with these colours quite well and the combination brings life to any environment. How then has your style evolved? For me, fashion has changed year after year. Back then, I was into jeans and colourful shirts. I then came to embrace dresses, specifically long dresses that have an African touch or accessories. Speaking of accessories, what do you prefer? I am currently into chains and rings. I prefer gold accessories at night when I am performing or just a simple night and silver on a simple day when indoors. What five items are a must-have in every girl’s wardrobe? A tracksuit, white pair of jeans, miniskirt, crop top and long black dress. Fashionably speaking, define your ideal kind of man. He should be outgoing and this should go hand-in-hand with his fashion. I love a man who pays attention to small details and he should always smell good. What do you splurge on? I am a sucker when it comes to dresses and shoes. How many pairs of shoes do you have? I have more than 60 pairs that come in different colours and shapes. All for different occasions, times and seasons. Who are your celebrity fashion icons? That goes to Nigerian artistes Yemi Alade and Mr Flavour. They both always have a touch of African in all their outfits. They actually inspire how I dress. I can’t deny it. What’s your quick fashion advice to fellow artistes? Always dress in something that you will be comfortable in, especially when you are performing. You can’t really want have a fashion malfunction in front of your adoring fans. So, don’t take chances when it comes to your on-stage dressing. Be as impressive as you can, but make sure your outfit is as comfortable as possible. That’s the bottom line!