Kenyans were reminded last year by an MP that as the institution that appropriates funds to other arms of government, the Legislature is first among equals. When the  Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs  moved a raft of changes through a bill which, among others, sought to have Parliamentary Service Commission take over determination of legislators welfare, emoluments and general benefits, there was widespread support by both the National Assembly and the Senate. They argued that any other regulatory mechanism outside the PSC was an infringement. This was reference to the Salaries and Remuneration Commission (SRC) which is constitutionally mandated to deal with rationalisation of emoluments and benefits due to those paid by the Exchequer. Revelations that MPs were recently paid Sh2.25 million each in  house allowance, backdated to last August at Sh250,000 per month falls within this arrangement of new benefits that will also see legislators get higher car grants and enhanced medical and other allowances. Eldas MP Adan Keynan, who had moved the bill, told his colleagues they must never fear to defend their welfare. Nobody begrudges legislators, including Members of County Assembly, the right to life of dignity.  However, what startles Kenyans is their predisposition to wallow in ritzy opulence and glitter at a time when the very underclass they purport to represent can hardly cope. Did the MPs even take note of how downcast Kenyans felt when hopes for minimum wage increase anticipated on Labour Day came to nought last week? Remuneration structures We are witnessing a tragic narrative of conspicuous consumption by the privileged in the society which instead of providing food for thought, is being ignored. Kenyans, perhaps naively, had hoped that pragmatism would dictate that reviewing any public officers’ remuneration structures would factor in the current strain and pressure on the economy and the burden on taxpayer. Last year, PSC on an interim basis announced that earnings due to MPs would revert to what they were as per SRC circular of November 2013, before a gazette notice of July 2017 by the same commission scrapped specific allowances and a Sh5 million car grant for each of the 416 MPs. The move to do away with Sh5,000 plenary sitting allowances and the car grant had followed an audit report presented last year by a team chaired by the Auditor General and which sought interrogation into the twin issues of over-representation in our legislative bodies and bloated public wage bill. Following intervention, both the Sh5,000 allowance and the Sh5 million car grant were restored. Today, MPs  think the Sh5 million can only purchase a ramshackle! It is critical that Kenyans stop glossing over the two issues, namely; whether the current structures   add legislative and representative value and if MPs are sufficiently responsive to concerns of voters. Following a benchmarking trip to UK and Northern Ireland by Services and Facilities Committee last year, our MPs realised their catering facilities were beneath their status and sought five-star hotel treatment. Not too long ago, Speaker Justin Muturi charged that many MPs are lazy and make little effort to understand what is going on in the House. The 2018/19 budgetary provisions gave Parliamentary Service Commission Sh9.2 billion for a raft of support services, administration and planning. Sobering figures President Uhuru Kenyatta, while commenting on the trend, reminded MPs of the  bloated public wage bill, pointing out: “We must remember that the calling of leadership is to serve, not to become rich through serving.” According to sobering figures he further quoted, two per cent of the population (public officers drawing salaries from the Exchequer) gobble up 50 per cent of total revenue.Then there is the huge Sh5.1trillion debt hanging around our collective neck like an albatross. Let’s put MPs’ earnings into context: The United States’ 425-member House of Representatives and100-member Senate serving a population of about 320 million Americans earn on average $174,000 (Sh17.4 million) per year, per lawmaker, while Kenya’s 416 legislators serving 45 million people and on average earn a basic pay of Sh6.4 million annually. This minus a catalogue of allowances (including fraudulent claims) which all translates to emoluments of over Sh1 million per month. Considering that the US economy is $16.7trillion while Kenya’s $55.2billion with minimum wage a pitiful Sh15,000 per month, clearly a roadmap to curtail our mind-boggling public wage disparities becomes an urgent issue. Do MPs care  about  the validity and sustainability of the current expenditure, growth rates, development goals and the reality that the extravagant and surplus to requirement representation cannot be equated to legislative quality and representational efficacy. Kenyans feel short-changed given the rapacious and extortionist tendencies of our lawmakers. It is unfortunate they cannot see that they are stoking a revolt by enhancing  massive inequities.  It’s not right that public earning should be comparable to private sector salaries. Kenya needs not appear like a country where people live in different socioeconomic orbits.