Amos Abuga @PeopleSports11 Athletics Kenya senior vice president Paul Mutwii yesterday named the  marathon team for the World Athletics Championships set for September 28 to October 6 in Doha, Qatar with some top names missing. Defending world marathon champion Geoffrey Kirui will spearhead the men’s team while two-time winner Edna Kiplagat will headline the women’s squad at the Worlds. Fit again Amos Kipruto, who was fourth at Sunday’s Prague marathon and second in Berlin last year, 2018 Paris Marathon champion Paul Lonyangata, Laban Korir and Ernest Ngeno are the other names in the men’s team. Kiplagat, a 2011, 2013 winner and 2017 silver medallist will be joined by Dubai marathon champion Ruth Chepng’etich, Visiline Jepkesho and Sally Kipyego. Under the guidance of coaches Joseph Cheromei and Richard Kimetto, the team is expected to officially commence training in July in Kaptagat. However, what drew the attention of many is the absence of top names such as Eliud Kipchoge, Brigid Kosgei, Vivian Cheruiyot and Mary Keitany who recently dominated the London Marathon. Mutwii, who is also in charge of the competition docket, was blunt, saying selection was based on ‘availability’ with many of the top athletes opting out in favour of money-spinning major city marathons. World record holder Kipchoge will be making another attempt at running a marathon under two hours around that time while 2018 London Marathon champion Vivian Cheruiyot, who finished second in 2019, and Keitany, winner of three titles in London, who finished fifth in the English capital this year, have also opted out and will instead focus on individual races. Financial incentive is at the centre of the major pull outs given a gold medal at the Worlds fetches Sh2.5 million plus an extra incentive from government, which always delay, while running in the major city marathons can net one three or four times that amount in prize money with an additional windfall coming from sponsors and appearance fees. For instance, the Berlin Marathon sees winners rake in Sh5 million  excluding appearance fees and sponsorships rewards while Chicago and New York Marathons rewards its champions with Sh10 million and Sh13 million respectively minus the add-ons.