Zachary Ochuodho @zachuodho Kenya’s public debt has increased by Sh135 billion to surpass the Sh5.5 trillion mark after the government successfully raised Sh210 billion through a Eurobond issue in tranches of seven and 12-year paper that was oversubscribed by four-an-a-half times. National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich (pictured) said in a statement that part of the amount raised will be used to retire Sh75 billion of the 2014 Eurobond that is scheduled for payment on June 24. The remaining amount, Sh135 billion will be used to finance infrastructure projects and support budgetary expenditure in the next financial year. Treasury statistics Central Bank of Kenya and National Treasury statistics, indicate that Kenya’s debt has been on the rise since January 2019. In January, the debt hit Sh5.33 trillion before it reached Sh5.43 trillion in March – which was an increase of about Sh1 billion in three months. This is the third time National Treasury is floating Eurobond. On June 24, 2014, the government raised Sh280 billionin five and 10-year tranches. It issued another Eurobond last year where it raised Sh202 billion in 10 and 30-year tranches. Following the new borrowing, Kenya’s debt proportion to the gross domestic product (GDP) has now risen to a higher level. Over the past months, Kenya has been going for the expensive loans from commercial banks, unlike the Eurobond which is cheaper, thus exerting pressure on Teasury repayment. John Kirimi, Sterling Capital director said Kenya has borrowed substantially, but the effect of that borrowing is not being reflected in faster economic growth or better living standards of the people. “There is no guarantee that if we borrow, we will have better and more competent bureaucrats to ensure that every cent of it is put into good use,”  he added. Budget deficit Kirimi said the borrowing will increase budget deficit and weaken the shilling in the long run. “Kenya being a net importer will end up with a large trade deficit and this may, in the long run, lead to higher inflation and a weaker shilling and the vicious cycle will continue,” he said. He said borrowing money which eventually gets stolen through corruption is costly and it would be better for the government to first put in place competent and honest people to manage these funds before borrowing. Kwame Owino, chief executive officer of the Institute of Economic Affairs said the government  needs to go for multilateral loans instead of going for commercial loans which charge expensive interest rates. “Increasing shift to bank loans  which charge high interest rates is baffling,” Owino said recently at a function on public debt, its size, structure and composition, sustainability and strategies. He said statistics show that Kenya has already breached key debt service to revenue ratios, with economists raising concerns on the increased proportion of bank loans with high interest rates.