Anthony Mwangi and Evans Nyakundi @PeopleDailyKe Members of Parliament are headed for a collision course with the Salaries and Remuneration Commission (SRC) over payment of the controversial house allowance after the lawmakers maintained they would not refund the money. MPs said they fully deserved the allowance and vowed to fight to the bitter end to retain what they say rightly belongs to them. In Nyamira, six MPs warned SRC chairperson Lyn Mengich against inciting members of the public against them over the house allowance issue. Led by Samuel Arama (Nakuru West), the MPs said the allowances were their right and anyone out to scheme for their removal would meet their wrath. Court ruling The legislators maintained they had no apologies to Kenyans over the Sh250, 000 house allowance which they said was a result of court ruling. Joash Nyamoko (North Mugirango), Vincent Kemosi (West Mugirango), Alpha Miruka (Bomachoge Chache), Ben Momanyi (Borabu), Arama and Jerusa Momanyi (Nyamira Woman Rep) said as State officers, they were entitled to house allowance. They told SRC to respect the rule of law. “If she wants to drag petty politics into the matter, let her be told that we are good at that and if we also do it, she will end up losing the battle,” Arama said. They said the Speaker of the National Assembly Justin Muturi, who also chairs the Parliamentary Service Commission (PSC) had pronounced himself on the matter and the SRC should not question what an arm of government has approved. Muturi defended the payment, saying it was within the law as MPs were State officers. “We acted on the court ruling of October 5, 2018 by Justice Chacha Mwita, in which he affirmed that all State officers are entitled to housing benefits,” Muturi said. He added: “Contrary to popular belief, every benefit extended to legislators, even long before the housing one, has been determined by the SRC. Curiously, the same benefits have been extended to the Executive and the Judiciary but without any undue focus.” On Wednesday, Mengich said MPs would be forced to refund Sh2 million each, which they pocketed as house allowance should the Commission succeed in a suit to be filed in court. Unconstitutional Reacting to the Commission statement, Senators Ledama ole Kina (Narok), Senator Johnes Mwaruma (Taita Taveta) and Ganze MP Teddy Mwambire asked the SRC to keep off the house allowance issue, saying the commission was coming too late as the court had determined the matter. “The matter should not be politicised. The court made a ruling and just like any other State officer MPs are entitled to house allowance,” said Mwaruma. The commission said yesterday it would move to court to have the lawmakers compelled to refund all the money paid as house allowance. If successful, the commission will recover Sh830 million from the 415 MPs of the two Houses. The PSC backdated the allowances to October 5, 2018 meaning that MPs, who have been pocketing Sh 250,000 per month, were paid Sh2 million lump sum for the eight months. Mengich said the move by the PSC was unconstitutional and that the payment of the house allowance to the MPs amounted to double payment of benefit, already included by the commission in gross pay. Mengich told a press conference that MPs, as stipulated in Article 260 of the Constitution, were State officers, hence the setting of their remuneration and benefits was the exclusive responsibility of SRC. “The PSC does not have constitutional authority to determine any remuneration and benefits of State officers,” said Mengich. She said the house allowance of Sh250, 000 per month, would cost taxpayers an extra Sh104 million every month, or Sh1.2 billion annually. Gross pay MPs accused the SRC of discrimination, saying other State officers get similar benefits. “Why is the welfare of other State officers catered for but when it comes to MPs, it is always termed as greed even when it is expressly provided for in the law?” posed Deputy Leader of Majority Ben Washiali. Mengich said the commission in Gazette Notices No 6516, 6517, 6518 and 6519 of 2017 set gross pay for State officers, including MPs. “The gross pay comprises basic salary and allowances, inclusive of house allowance, and any payment outside the gross pay is therefore unlawful, she said.