Amos Abuga @AMOKC1oo1 From a distance one would be forgiven for mistaking them for a group of elders in a prayer session facing a mountain while raising their hands. Members are perfecting an indoor pastime under a tree, making it intriguing and fun-filled, as they are thrilled with every moment and action. Meet Rosters Unity Group Darts Club, a group of dedicated personalities from all walks of life who have been converging under a tree for the last three years, just for the love of the game, or a distraction. The players who started the game as a hobby now hope to use the platform to better their lives but also taking the game to the next level or even play competitively. “One day we have a dream of starting a business be it in transport or something else. That is why we are serious with savings. We have three signatories and even elected some officials to manage the group,” says Dan Thuranira the organising secretary. Darts is an indoor game traditionally played in private members’ clubs, bars, and pubs, never outdoor.  Four years ago, the group of likeminded individuals united by life’s hardship came together with the intention of improving their living standards. Group leader Michael Gitonga, one of the founding members and a darts enthusiast serves as a guiding light, offering tips and outlining  rules. Thuranira recalls how it all started: “A group of hustlers had seen it all. We wanted to at least make life easier. That is how Rosters Unity Group started. Initially the idea was that the members contribute Sh10 a day in a savings account, where at the end of the year, each member was given their share. Member registration “We were around 60 in number at the beginning, while the intention was to wait until the end of the year to get one’s money, exceptions were made to allow members to access small loans to keep them going in case of emergency,” he says. “The amount might seem small, but trust me in December just before Christmas, members had something to take home. Remember this are hustlers,” says Thuranira. A year later the members in their unwritten constitution resolved that each be parting with a minimum of Sh100 a week. And they have never looked back. “I consider the members as my family, living in a country dominated by hardships and unemployment, it was only fair to invent a game that was to keep us busy and occupied, that is how the darts club was formed and thus the name Rosters Unity Group Darts Club,” recalls the 26-year-old. Yusuf Maina, another member says the players meet each evening for a game of darts and this continues to keep him focused in a rather individualistic and tough society. For Yusuf, the game has been, for among other reasons, an avenue to vent his frustrations, blaming it on the government that has forgotten its people. “Let’s be honest, we don’t really have recreational facilities in the country let alone one that allow you to throw what is essentially a weapon at stationary target with all your force if you wish. Throwing darts is like throwing small knives at a sticky board. To me it gets the aggression out of me when I throw some darts. I feel a whole lot better afterwards,” says Yusuf. University graduate His eloquence and mastery of the national language as well as the slang ‘Sheng’ is amusing, he later reveals that he was forced to defer his studies at the Kenyatta University where he was pursuing Bachelor of Commerce (B.com) due to lack of fees after he was retrenched from his job as an attendant at a supermarket chain in 2017. The ‘B’ student finished his secondary education at Uhuru Secondary in 2012. He was a third-year student when he deferred his studies. “For a player, what intrigues us is where the dart will land.  Maybe it hit the treble, bulls eye maybe. That is what spurs us. It gives you a sense of achievement,” says Dan who through his savings from the group has recently acquired his category C1 driving license (Light trucks).