CRBs are an integral part of the country’s credit market. Group chief executive of a Kenyan CRB, Metropol Corporation Sam Omukoko (pictured right) talked to special correspondent Patrick Mwangi on the impact of CRBs. Below are the excerpts QUESTION: What impact would you say CRBs have had on the economy? ANSWER: CRBs have increased access to credit. According to the recent Fin access report, Kenya now ranks third after South Africa and Seychelles on financial inclusion on the continent. The evidence is in the many Fintechs providing mobile lending solutions that are operating in the country. Two, there are reduced non-performing loans (NPLs) in the banking sector. And thirdly, wider customer choice. Credit history and scores now paint a clear picture for the lender. Q: From which sources do CRBs get their information? In other words, how do people find themselves in CRB? A: Banks and microfinance banks are mandated by the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) under the CRB regulations 2013 to share credit data with licensed CRBs. Other sources include Saccos, microfinance institutions, utilities and trade institutions. Q:Why does default information remain in the records for five years? A: The CRB regulations 2013 provides for this retention period. The previous regulations provided for seven years. What this means is that a default record will keep appearing on the report for that period after which it gets expunged from your record. It is up to the lender to decide what to do with a borrower who has a default item on their record. Q: How are credit scores calculated? A: Credit scores are calculated using a mathematical formula that uses information on the customers’ credit profile. Only data and information on the credit profile is used to calculate the scores. The score is a predictor of the customer’s creditworthiness. It generally considers things such as number of credit accounts, payment performance, amount of debt, credit mix between instalments accounts, revolving and open account; number of searches on the credit profile and customer contacts. Q: Who has the obligation to notify a borrower when they are being referred to CRB as a defaulter? A: The lender must notify the borrower that they will forward the record to the bureau as a default item. Q: Who has the obligation to update information on the CRB platform when that default has been discharged? A: The lender. Q: Who is liable for wrongful  blacklisting on CRBs? Who bears the responsibility and liabilities? Where are the checks and where are the remedies? A: Mistakes occur mostly from lenders because they are the ones who provide the information. Bureaus just upload and keep what lenders have sent. The sole responsibility lies, therefore, with the lender. CRB regulations provide for a dispute resolution mechanism that has four stages: Customer complains to the CRB, the bureau then has five days within which to respond. The complaint goes to the lender who has 10 days within which to respond. If the matter is not settled the customer proceeds to the alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) centre at KSMS run by CIS Kenya. If the matter is not resolved at the ADR centre, then the customer should proceed to court. Q: Are you worried that 500,000 people cannot borrow because CRBs have blacklisted them? A: Not quite. This figure is not constant. Old debts are paid off and new people default. So it is ever changing. The good news is that the percentage of defaulters remains below five per cent of the total borrowing population, which is better than the 24 per cent prior to the introduction of CRBs. Q: Describe the key features of a credit report. A: Credit report has customers bio data, date of birth, nationality, contact address, employment information, credit information containing number of loans and amounts outstanding and record of repayment, closed accounts and collateral and guarantors. Q: There’s very little public awareness on CRBs and their work, yet they have become a key parameter in the financial sector today. What are CRBs doing to improve this? A: Treasury has a plan to start a publicity programme to inform people about the benefits of CRBs. Q: How do CRBs make their money? A: We sell reports that contain borrower behaviour. Q: Who needs a CRB clearance report? A: CRB clearance is there to meet the financial probity of someone seeking a public office or any other employment or a political seat. This is provide for in Chapter Six of the Constitution under financial probity. Q: The data held by CRB is very confidential and privileged information. How do CRBs ensure security of data? A: CRB’s have robust IT systems and are audited by professional IT firms and CBK every year. The writer can be reached at ndungum49@hotmail.com