Sylvia Wakhisi @PeopleDailyKe When she gave birth to triplets, Marble Nyahela wanted nothing more than to take her children home, all three. Instead, she had to bear the pain of losing two of them during her stay in hospital. “It wasn’t an easy period, but God has a way of helping a parent cope with grief. I had to remain strong for my surviving triplet, and my eldest child,” says Marble. Marble and her husband Sammy Segero met when they were still in the university. She was a first year student while he was in his third year of study. After their first meeting, they were convinced they wanted to spend the rest of their lives together. They were still dating in October 2010 when Marble discovered that she was pregnant. And they decided to settle down. “I was only 21 at the time, with little knowledge of what goes into bringing up a baby. But I figured that once I gave birth, everything would fall into place,” she says. Labour at 26 weeks The first pregnancy was smooth all the way, and she gave birth to Angel weighing 4.1 kilogrammes through caesarean section. “I was a third year student and balancing books and the baby was quite a challenge. I had to leave my baby with my landlady everyday as I attended classes,” she recounts. Fast forward, five years later, Marble conceived again. However, what she thought would be a smooth pregnancy as the first turned out to be a nightmare. “Seven weeks into the pregnancy, I felt some sharp pain which prompted me to see a gynaecologist. I was advised to undergo a scan, which revealed that I was carrying triplets,” says Marble. She describes the pregnancy as very difficult with episodes of severe nausea. Four months into the pregnancy, walking, sitting and even sleeping was a problem. In December 2016, she woke up with labour pains yet was only 26 weeks into the pregnancy. “I had to undergo emergency CS. Unfortunately, I lost my first triplet, a boy, immediately after birth due to apnea attack, a potentially serious sleep disorder in which breathing repeatedly stops and starts,” she says. Low birth weight The babies had low birth weight; Precious was 800 grammes, Patience, 600 grammes and Oliver, 1.2 kilogrammes. Initially, she had named them Olive, Olivia and Oliver, but when she learnt that the boy had passed on, she changed the names of the remaining triplets who were identical to Patience and Precious. “After the death of my boy, I stayed in the hospital for 10 weeks as the second triplet slowly gained weight. However, during the stay, I lost Precious at 14 days,” she recounts. Patience was finally discharged from hospital at 14 weeks. Having both experiences of raising a full-term and pre-term baby, Marble says a full-term baby who is in good health comes with joy and fun moments as opposed to raising a pre-term baby. “Pre-term babies need extra care to increase their chance of survival. The stress, pain and emotional anxiety that go with being the parent of a premature baby is intense. You need to give the right supplements such as calcium, iron, vitamins, among others and the house needs to be sterile and free of dirt since they easily get sick. On the other hand, outside interactions need to be minimised so as to prevent the baby from getting infections. I had no visitors for the first three months and used disinfectants to clean the house and hands. We also used to go for regular check-ups at the hospital,” she explains. Marble explains that the costs involved in taking care of a pre-term baby are draining. At some point, I had to seek financial assistance on social media when my baby was discharged,” she says. Great support system She terms her husband as her greatest support. “He has always been there, right from the time we had our first child. Sometimes he stays at home with the children when I am away for workshops or running errands,” she says. “I also got support from my extended family and fellow women on social media, who were struggling to bring up pre-term babiesm,” she says. Being a high school teacher, she says, the teaching career is favourable to parenting. “I leave my child with her nanny at 7am, and by 5pm, I am back home. We also bond during weekends and school holidays,” says Marble. Thus far, Marble is grateful to God that Patience has been able to meet her milestones like any other child her age and is very hyperactive. “Raising a pre-term baby made me stronger and better. For every parent out there, understand that every child is unique. Take time to bond with them so you may able to detect any differences in character and personality,” she advises.