Nailantei Norari Going out every night can become quite a drag and quite honestly a bit expensive too. Moreover, sometimes one just wants to imbibe their favourite alcohol at home or simply host a party in the house. I mean, there is no way I am hosting my housewarming in a bar, unless I will be living in the bar! This means that at some point, you will have to think of owning and stocking a home bar. Here are a few steps to getting your own home bar on the road, or in your house as is the case here. Start small You do not have to start your home bar with a wide range of drinks. No one wants you to stock up on different bourbons, wines, gins and different vodkas. If they do, they are not your friends and they are not worthy to grace your home bar. Get just a few drinks that you and your friends enjoy. You can get a bottle of vodka, a whiskey and one gin from which your friends will pick what they want to take, either neat or with a mixer. You can also have beers, some wine and some soft drinks for those who cannot take harsh drinks and the teetotalers. Buy mid-priced drinks You do not have to stock your bar with an eighteen-year-old Glenfiddich bottle or a King George V only to have your friends guzzle them with little regard to their quality or price. Go for middle level drinks; high end drinks you will see you in debt and on the CRB list and don’t buy such cheap alcohol that everyone dies from hangovers and you are left alone with guilt and your impurity filled cheap liquor. Play it safe, straddle the middle line when it comes to price. Anyone too picky can bring their own bottle. Mixers and garnish Your mixers will be dependent on the main drinks you have bought. But it is always prudent to have the most common mixers on hand such as sodas especially Cola and Sprite, soda water, tonic water like Schweppes, juices and ginger ale. If you are an advanced mixologist, you can stock up on bitters and syrups. For garnishes get lemons, lime, orange, olives and mints to start with. Remember to have toothpicks, which will help you lay the garnish or piece them together in the case of olives. Do not forget to stock up on ice. There can never be enough ice. Appropriate glassware and accouterments You will need to serve your drinks in something. Alcohol is not weed that you puff-puff-pass, or in this case drink-drink-pass. Get a few glasses that can serve the crowd coming to your house party plus an allowance for plus ones and plus twos (We all know friends who can never go anywhere alone, especially if free alcohol is on the menu. Kwa akina Brayo kuna houseparty na wanaprovide pombe, utakam?  We shall discuss these uncouth tabias another day). Again, remember to start small. You can buy a few bar tools such as a cocktail shaker, a bar spoon and a strainer. You do not have to have all the fancy cocktail glasses under the sky. Just stock up on a few glasses; martini glasses, tumblers for the whiskies, high-ball glasses and wineglasses and you are good to go. The beer drinkers can take it straight from the bottle or in highball glasses, they do not deserve beer mugs unless you are serving craft beer, in which case you have enough money and you should just have hired out the entire shindig to an outside bar caterer. Last but not least, have some bitings ready or simply tell your houseguests to show up with some packed food and snacks. Have some music to set the mood and proceed to have a good time. Cin cin! Santé!