“Hodi, hodi, hodi,” I can hear someone persistently knocking… well, they cannot knock since there is no door to knock on, but I’m almost sure I am not dreaming, and there is someone at the doorway. I roll out of bed and shuffle my way towards the voice. It is my morning call. The previous day during dinner, we had been asked what time we wanted our morning call. I said 6:15 am since I wanted to either go for a run or swim before breakfast, which would be served at 8am. The morning call is how one of the staff at Tana River Delta Dune Lodge wakes you up while bringing you a pot of coffee or tea and some cookies to tide you over as you prepare for breakfast. They say the way to a man’s heart is through food. I do not know why they left out the women. Feel free to wake me up at midnight. So long as you feed me, I promise not to be a grouch. The houses here are perched on dunes, with the walls being hip level and the space between the wall and the high thatch roof being open, so that one has unrestricted views of the Tana River Delta on one side and the Indian Ocean on the other. One can experience the magnificent sunrise right from the warmth of their bed. The rooms are rustic such that you feel one with nature. It is clear that they were built with the view of not interrupting nature but melding with it instead. The wake up cookies and masala tea are just the tip of the iceberg. Chef Daniel Baya outdoes himself with sumptuous meals, which are a welcome oasis of peace and nourishment amidst our busy days at the lodge. He is the executive chef also in charge of the menu. He custom makes it according to his clients’ needs, from the cookies served in the morning to the starters and dessert at dinner. With more than 30 years of experience that spans the entire country cooking up a storm for the who’s who in Nairobi city as well as at the lodge, Chef Baya clearly enjoys what he does. “I love cooking. This is one of those professions where you can only get better with age,” he tells us with a note of pride in his voice. He has muscled his way to be the knowledgeable chef he is today through sheer willpower and determination. He started off as a steward then worked his way up to being a pastry chef, to executive chef. He has attended numerous courses to better his skills and is more than willing to mentor young people as a way of paying it forward. He is good at making Italian dishes as well as African cuisine. He is also keen on not just how food is prepared, but how it is presented as well. “I love art. It is a way of expression. I do not stop at just making sure that food is presented well and beautifully garnished. I also garden at home and the flowers outside my house are always well tended to and beautiful to look at,” the chef informs us. Enamoured of his dishes which are both sumptuous as well as pleasing to the eye, we ask him if we can follow him to the kitchen to watch him do his magic. He agrees and humours us further by giving us a simple cucumber recipe.