The Organising Secretary of Council of Imams and Preachers (CIPK) Sheikh Mohamed Khalifa has appealed for enhanced security as Muslims begin the month of Ramadhan next week. Khalifa said those venturing out for night prayers in mosques need to feel safe and asked security agencies to be vigilant. Coast Regional Commissioner John Elungata has assured residents of adequate security during Ramadhan.  Elungata said police would deal firmly with those planning to perpetrate criminal activities during the holy month. The Holy month of Ramadhan, a period of fasting and prayers, is expected to start either Sunday or Monday after Chief Kadhi Sheikh Ahmed Mudhar announces the sighting of the new moon. Ramadhan, which is the fourth pillar of Islam, is a period of dedication to prayers and restraint, reaching out to people and giving to the needy. During the daily fast, Muslims refrain from dawn to sunset from eating, drinking, smoking and sexual relations. Fasting is compulsory for every Muslim male or female but exemptions include children under the age of puberty, the sick and people who are too old. Muslim Cleric Sheikh Othman Naaman said the first 10 days of Ramadan are mercy, the middle 10 days are forgiveness and last 10 days are salvation. In an interview with KNA, Naaman said the faithful should learn lessons from Ramadhan by changing their bad attitudes and behaviour. Naaman said “the blessed month of Ramadhan is also a month of generosity and identifying with the less fortunate. At the same time, clerics have welcomed the government’s move to waive tax on imported date fruits during the fasting month. In a letter to Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA), the government said it will pay tax imposed on imported dates for use during the Holy month of Ramadhan. Sheikh Khalifa cautioned traders against hiking the price of dates. “Actually price of dates should come down during the month of Ramadhan following removal of tax,” said Sheikh Khalifa who also asked Muslims to pray for peace and stability in the country.