James Magayi, Daniel Ogendo and Fred Likuyani AFC Leopards eight-match unbeaten run came to a crushing end when they were handed a 2-0 defeat by a clinical Mathare United in a SportPesa Premier League match at Bukhungu Stadium yesterday. The visitors took the lead after 28 minutes when Cliff Nyakeya weaved his way past two Leopards defenders before beating Jairus Adira in the hosts’ goal before Mathare extended their lead 10 minutes later when Klinsmann Omukanga tapped in after the Ingwe shot-stopper spilled a harmless shot. “My players made mistakes in the early stages after we started slowly and Mathare punished us. We need to correct a few mistakes ahead of our next match,” said Leopards coach Andre Casa Mbungo. In Kisumu, Gor Mahia’s march to the title was slowed by a resolute Western Stima who held them to a barren draw at Moi Stadium, Kisumu. Stima were composed and managed to thwart several attempts made by Gor with Francis Kahata and Boniface Omondi missing clear chances in the first half. K’Ogalo then received a blow in the 60th minute when star striker Dennis Oliech’s suffered a dislocated wrist after falling awkwardly while vying for a header with Likare Junior. The injury led to a five-minute stoppage before Oliech was taken to hospital. Sofapaka old boy Rodgers Aloro returned to haunt his former club with a goal deep in injury time as Tusker completed a fightback from two goals down to draw 2-2 with title contenders Sofapaka in Machakos. Sofapaka went into Sunday’s fixture trailing Gor by seven points and thought they had cut it to five until Aloro happened. Umaru Kasumba powered in a close range header to put Sofapaka in the lead just four minutes into kickoff before midfielder Brian Magonya doubled the advantage early in the second half. However, Boniface Muchiri pulled one back for Tusker in the 88th minute before Aloro scored the equaiser deep into injury time. Meanwhile, Kakamega Homeboyz piled more pressure on Kariobangi Sharks, handing them a 3-0 defeat while Darius Msagha’s selfish play against Posta Rangers stood out as Bandari were held to a draw. The midfielder had the ball when three Bandari players broke clear with just Rangers goalkeeper Gradus Ochieng to beat and instead of playing in a team-mate, he opted for glory which backfired. 