Hillary Mageka @hillarymageka Taita Taveta County Government has petitioned the Senate to compel Kenya Wildlife Service (KWS) to share revenue collected from the twin Tsavo national parks. Appearing before the Senate County Public Accounts and Investment Committee (CPAIC), Taita Taveta Governor Granton Samboja rallied members of the committee to support their cause of liberating the people from what he termed as “suppression occasioned by KWS”. According to him, his administration had held several meetings and wrote numerous letters to the KWS but they had turned a blind eye on the matter. “We have written several letters to KWS to see how we can share the revenue they generate from the parks but they have never replied,” Governor Samboja told the Senator Moses Kajwang’- led committee. “We are now collecting signatures that we will use to petition the Senate to help us compel KWS to share the revenue they generate from the resources which are domiciled in our county,” he added. The governor, who was appearing before the committee to answer to audit queries for the 2017/18 financial year, rallied members of the committee to support the petition, which is on its final stages before presentation in the House. “We seek the support of the Senate to liberate our people from the KWS bondage. It is very sad that more than 62 per cent of our county is in the National Park and yet we get nothing from it,” he said. His sentiments were supported by Taita Taveta Senator Johnes Mwaruma, who stated the petition has a backing of a majority of county residents and is aimed at emancipating his people. “We are fully behind the governor and his team, as leaders we must treat this petition with a lot of urgency and to make sure the county gets a share of the revenue collected from the expansive national park,” he said. During the meeting, the governor announced that his administration and the County Assembly have started collecting signatures to petition the national government to cede the park to the county. More than 65 per cent of the land in Taita Taveta is occupied by the Tsavo ecosystem, with another 24 per cent occupied by private farms and rangelands while only less than 12 per cent is left for locals. The Prisons Department occupies about 1,000 acres near Bura trading centre on the Mwatate-Taveta road, and another 100 acres in Voi town, which had been invaded by thousands of squatters.