Bernard Gitau @benagitau State House has assured Kenyans that President Uhuru Kenyatta is not missing in action and that he is undertaking his duties as expected. Speaking to People Daily yesterday, State House spokesperson Kanze Dena said the President is alright and those concerned about his whereabouts should be assured that he is carrying out his duties. “The President is working but sometimes you should give him space to relax,” said Kanze, adding that the President cannot only be perceived to be working when he is seen in public. Over the weekend, Kenyans took to social media demanding to know Uhuru’s whereabouts. Since witnessing the signing of two project delivery agreements totaling to Sh67.5 billion and an avocado deal with China almost two weeks ago, Uhuru has not been spotted in a public function. On Sunday there were claims that he  would preside over an event in Gatundu, but he did not show up. And in their peculiar and humorous way, Kenyans on Twitter (KOT) using the hashtag #FindPresidentUhuru tried to smoke him out. On Saturday,  KOT created funny memes with majority giving probable reasons President Uhuru was missing in action. @Tzdadiel said: To our brothers in diaspora we are looking for our president whose last known destination was China where he went to seek a loan support. But we’re not sure if he was given the loan. Or maybe he was given but decided to flee with it,” “The President is a Symbol of National Unity. When you can’t hear from the President especially after unauthorised access to his social media channels & a loan he went to seek was declined, that’s enough reason for alarm. Maybe depression has gotten to him,” @IamBravin tweeted. Country’s fortune Machakos governor Alfred Mutua urged Kenyans to stop being anxious about President Uhuru’s whereabouts citing he was busy working to improve the country’s fortune. Speaking at AIC Kasarani during a women’s conference, Mutua said;  “I want to tell Kenyans to stop complaining and remain calm, Uhuru is working towards eradicating corruption and improving the country’s economy.” President Uhuru led a delegation to China, which included AU Special envoy Raila Odinga  to negotiate trade deals. The #hashtag attracted the attention of outspoken political analyst Mutahi Ngunyi. “SILENCE annoys EVEN the DEVIL. Leading Kenyans is like HERDING needy Cats. Uhuru should GIVE them the CONTEMPT CARD #FindPresidentUhuru.”