FRANCIS MULI Living in a dream home is something we all strive for, especially now, when the world is getting trendier and every person wants to move with times and be “modern”. This implies having a contemporary living room furniture to match your style. However, furnishing a house can be trickier than it looks. It needs a strategy, otherwise it will prove a tall order with the ever-increasing cost of living. Here is how to furnish your house and have that “dream house” without much struggle. 1. Set priorities If you cannot afford to buy all the furniture at a go, set the most important ones first then others will follow. This will give you “breathing” space for your finances, and rethink your priorities and preferences. Doing so helps you to maintain a clear focus on reaching the most important goals first and taking the steps to ensure that you do. Setting priorities also helps you to avoid being overwhelmed. 2. Use hire purchase Hire purchase will cost you an extra coin,  but it is worth it instead of waiting for savings for the furniture you want to accumulate. It gives you an assurance of getting what you want. It also creates a sense of responsibility in you. Every time you get money,  you know that some amount automatically goes towards achieving something you treasure. If you opt to save,  there might come a time you might use your savings to do something else that was not in your plans. With the rise in financial technology, many sellers have hire purchase plans for premium goods. 3. Window shop The adage goes,  “information is power”.  However,  information is potential power,  and only becomes power when put in use.  Window shopping gives you the information you need, which you can use to make the best choice of the furniture you need,  and the best prices. It enables you to get the best furniture, at the cheapest prices. 4. Set timelines Goals without time limits might take you forever to achieve.  Timelines will enable you to move from one agenda to the other.  If you get stuck in one task, you will never achieve the next,  hence dwarfing your development. 5. Look out for offers Festive seasons give the best offers in terms of furniture and other household goods.  Unless it is urgent, wait for festive seasons to buy your furniture at lower prices that will save you money.