Murimi Mutiga and Hillary Mageka @murimimutiga Governors have warned of imminent shutdown of county governments after the National Assembly went on recess without resolving an impasse on deduction of Sh9 billion from the sharable revenue for counties for the current financial year. They claimed counties will be unable to pay staff salaries in July if the money is not availed. Speaking in Mombasa, Council of Governors chairman Wycliffe Oparanya said the deduction will lead to disruption of services and delayed payment of contractors. “We urge the Senate and the National Assembly to resolve this issue with urgency to mitigate the impending shutdown,” he said. At the same time, the governors have resolved not to appear before Senate to answer queries on the audited accounts for the year 2017/18, following erroneous inclusion of National government programmes in county accounts. Oparanya asked the Director of Criminal Investigations (DCI) to probe how the accounts of the National government got into the audited accounts of counties. “The county governments do not find any value in submitting themselves for interrogation on accounts that have been publicly admitted as erroneous by the National Treasury and the responsible public oversight bodies,” he said. Governors who attended the council’s Liaison and Management Committee meeting, including Mwangi wa Iria (Murang’a), Kivutha Kibwana (Makueni), James Ongwae (Kisii) and Wycliffe Wangamati (Bungoma), accused Office of the Auditor General of trying to paid counties in bad light by refusing to seek answers from county governments when the issue was noted during the auditing process. However, Senate’s County Public Accounts and Investment committee, chaired by Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang’, in a statement yesterday threatened stern action against any governor who will fail to appear before it to answer audit queries raised by the Auditor General. The committee resumes its sitting today after a seven-day break and has scheduled at least five governors to appear before it this week.