Kabras Sugar fullback Philip Wokorach is among coach Henley Du Plessis’ 23-man squad scheduled to contest in rugby 15s Enterprise cup semi-finals against Kenya Harlequins at the RFUEA Grounds at 4pm Saturday. The Uganda sevens international and a leading scoring machine will hope to give a push to his side in the 2019 Enterprise Cup semis clash at RFUEA as neighbouring Impala Saracens at the Impala Club host KCB in the other Cup semis. The Ngong Road hosted thrillers will have Cup finals qualification as the stakes, hosts planning to defy odds to set up a derby Cup final by revenging losses in their most recent meetings against the visitors. On February 9, Impala lost a scoreless half time neutrality to go down 25-3 to KCB in Ruaraka while Harlequins on February 16 lost 21-3 to Kabras but picked a positive by denying Kabras a first Kenya cup bonus win of the season at the same venue. Former Kabras tactician and current Harlequins boss Charles Cardovillis plans to better their previous 21-3 losing outcome against Kabras for the honours of contesting for the title slated to be decided on May 25. “Looking back at our previous match we failed to score despite several advantages so we have come up with a plan that will have us in control of the game against a balanced team and score points from onset, ” said Cardovillis in an exclusive with Wikendi Sports. At the Impala Club, hosting Sarries will be betting their money on revenge and pride with a priceless home advantage-adding onto last weekend’s Kenya Cup Quarter-finals losing lessons to steer them to a rare win against the Bankers. Impala head coach Frank Ndong predicts an exciting game with a younger side owing to personal commitments and injuries picked from last weekend’s Kenya Cup quarter-finals clash. “We have some key players unavailable due to injuries so we have had their younger replacements from the second team coming in to achieve our targets. We will give it our best shot, contain their offloads and rampaging forwards, ” said Impala Frank Ndong. Both matches bear preparation roles for upcoming May 25, crème-de-la-crème -Kenya Cup semi-finals scheduled for May 11 in Kakamega and Nairobi, hosted by Kabras and KCB respectively. As an avenue for their Kenya Cup Semis preparation, KCB head coach Curtis Olago will be gauging his players for the right combination in the upcoming home Kenya Cup Semis match against Harlequins. “Our guns are blazing, this is our first major cup semi-finals appearance this year and also a platform for the Kenya Cup semis team selection. Our target is to savour maximum points to stand a chance of progressing to both finals ad win both titles,” Olago said.