Early season delight is quickly turning into despair for Western Stima as a 13-match winless run literally dims what had looked like a bright return to the SportPesa Premier League (SPL). Stima, who started the season with four straight wins, have seen divisions in the executive committee pitting club chairman Laban Jobita and a clique fiercely opposed to his decisions spilt the dressing room. Players have formed cabals and results have dried so much that the vaunted abilities of Paul Odhiambo were quickly forgotten and the coach booted for poor performance. Stima have recruited Salim Babu, who once dug Sony Sugar out of  relegation trouble, but the cracks within the team management and playing united are still deep. It is against these odds that Babu’s magic wand was hired to stem the club’s spiralling fall and he will need a lot of that against  bottom-placed Mount Kenya today, having lost 2-0 to former club Sony in his first match in charge last weekend. While Mount Kenya are the weakest in the division, Babu cannot take anything for granted as the basement side beat hosts Zoo FC 3-2 in Kericho last weekend. No easy game “The league is difficult since every team is working towards achieving their targets, so there is no easy game. I do not want to say what will happen against Mount Kenya but as a team, we are going to play for three points. That is what we have been training for since our last game and that is what we will focus on,” Babu told People Sport yesterday. Kariobangi Sharks are another club with a long winless run. Sharks last won a league match on March 19 at home to Nzoia Sugar and have since lost four and drawn five of their last nine, leaving coach William Muluya on the brink of dismissal. Sharks face a plucky opponent in Chemeli Sugar, both teams desperate for points. Sharks were comfortable victors in the first leg as goals from Vincent Wasambo and a half-fit Eric Kapaito steered Muluya to his second last league victory. Chemelil have since picked 14 points while Muluya’s five draws have proven too little for Sharks’ ambitious owners. Form-team AFC Leopards have a 2pm fixture with Nzoia Sugar at Bukhungu Stadium. Leopards are seeking a 10th league victory of the season but the sugar millers, powered by a crop of young, talented high school graduates are a hard nut to crack.