Anthony Mwangi and Hillary Mageka @PeopleDailyKe Kenyan workers have nothing to smile about after the government failed to increase their minimum and general wages yesterday, citing prevailing harsh economic times. In a speech delivered by Labour Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yattani, President Uhuru Kenyatta said the government would announce wage adjustments after reaching an agreement with workers unions and employers. Amid heckles and boos by disgruntled workers, Yattani said the negotiation process to determine whether to increase the minimum wage was underway. “We will discuss whether there is going to be a pay increase next week. The trade unions, employers and the government need to work together to make economy and labour market more inclusive,” he told bitter unionists and workers who graced this year’s Labour Day celebrations at Uhuru Park in Nairobi. The Nairobi event was marked by a low turnout. Before yesterday’s event, the Central Organisation of Trade Unions (Cotu) had mounted pressure on the government announce a 15 per cent pay increment and workers were expectant of the good news. Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli had warned that umbrella workers body would ask its members to boycott the Housing Fund levy if the government fail to heed its demands. “We want 15 per cent general pay increase if President Uhuru wants to deduct his 1.5 per cent housing levy. The government must come out to protect worker’s interests,” he said. The Federation of Kenya Employers (FKE), which skipped the event, has been opposing any wage adjustment citing stalled economic growth. Kenya National Union of Teachers chairman Wilson Sossion slammed FKE for giving the celebrations a wide berth.  “It is a shame that the Federation of Kenya Employers has skipped this event.” Essential services Atwoli accused the federation of being behind the delayed implementation of the five per cent pay hike announced by the President last year. “The employers have been lobbying to have the implementation of the pay increment delayed for the last eight months,” he said. Yattani warned that strikes by workers agitating for better pay have continued to deny Kenyans essential services and portrays the country as a shaky investment destination. “The industrial relations landscape in the country has been turbulent in the recent past, particularly in the public sector,” said the CS. He said the government targets to create a million new jobs in the manufacturing sector and, thereby, raise the sector’s contribution to the GDP from the current 8.5 per cent to 15 per cent. Politicians who graced the event to address the progress of the ongoing fight against corruption, with calls on Kenyans to support Uhuru’s efforts to arrest the vice. Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula were unanimous that more needs to be done in the fight. They said Kenyans crave convictions, not mere talk by those in authority. Kalonzo urged Members of Parliament to enact a legislation that would guide envisioned lifestyle audit of public officials. Without the laws, he added, the government will be only paying lip service in its efforts to tame graft. “If we want to slay this dragon called corruption, we must have proper legislation in place to guide the process,” he said. “Corruption is milking the economy dry and failure contain it will see our people continue to suffer.” Public debt Kalonzo also raised concern over lenient bail terms given to graft suspects, terming it a setback. Mudavadi and Wetangula said the runaway public debt was a threat to the national security and might result to an uprising. “The debt is too huge and we must curtail the government’s appetite to borrowing” warned Mudavadi. ODM Chairman John Mbadi said Parliament would not pass any legislation meant to suppress the interest of workers. “We will resist any attempt to amend NSSF and NHIF Acts,” said Mbadi after Atwoli accused National Assembly Leader of Majority Aden Duale of attempting to introduce amendments to the two Acts.