Machakos, Thursday @PeopleSports11 Gor Mahia came from three goals down to salvage a point in a 3-3 draw against KCB in a round 27 of the SportPesa Premier League at Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos yesterday. KCB had sailed to a 3-0 lead inside the first half hour with Bolton Omwenga scoring a rare brace to add onto Martin Nderitu’s opener. But Gor would respond through strikes from Harun Shakava and Samuel Onyango to end a blockbuster opening half and set up a tense second stanza that would eventually see K’Ogalo claim a point with Francis Mustafa grabbing the equaliser deep into stoppage time. The bankers were on the verge of claiming the double over the league leaders but as has been the case in many of the team’s games this season, a lack of concentration in the final minutes was their undoing. Frank Ouna’s men claimed a 1-0 win over Gor in their first leg, a game that witnessed crowd trouble. The draw sees Gor unable to restore their nine-point advantage at the top of the standings and now lie seven above their closest challengers with 59 points while KCB remain in 12th place with 31 points. A poor first half from K’Ogalo saw the bankers take advantage with left-back Omwenga scoring a sumptuous double with ferocious strikes from distance. This would prompt Hassan Oktay into a first-half double substitution as he brought on Boniface Omondi and Dennis Oliech for Hashim Sempala and Erisa Ssekisambu. The changes stabilised the champions and provide a catalyst for the comeback. Winning ways In Mombasa, Bandari returned to winning ways following a 1-0 victory over visiting Ulinzi Stars at Mbaraki Sports Club. In a game that seemed balanced for long periods, with both sides attacking with intent, it was the on-form Yema Mwana who would pop up with the winner in the 83rd minute. Joint leading scorer Enosh Ochieng had the first real chance of the match when in the 11th minute he rose to meet Omar Mbongi’s cross, but he could only hit the bar. On the other end, William Wadri was a constant threat to Ulinzi’s defence with searing runs through the midfield but his final ball was wanting on most occasions. -SOKA