Tell us about yourself and how you entered Kenya’s mining industry. I grew up and attended school here in Kenya, then went for tertiary education abroad. After that I worked in the mining industry in several African countries as well as in South America. I joined Tiomin in 2005 when the project was still in its  early stages of development. Base Titanium acquired the project in 2010 after Tiomin pulled out after experiencing some difficulties. Fortunately, we managed to nurse the sick baby through this difficult period until it was adopted by new parents. So I transitioned to Base Titanium. All in all, I have been with the Kwale project for 14 years. We hear you are set to retire, is it true? Yes, it is true, I am retiring. After a long career in the mining sector, it is time for someone else to take over. In the future, if asked, I may do some part-time consultancy work. Tell us about your management experience? I was General Manager during the Tiomin and early Base Titanium days, but once the project got underway, I took on the role of General Manager External Affairs and Development, which, in addition to government relations, compliance and public relations, involved running exploration programmes. During the first shipment you had challenges securing an export permit from the government, does this challenge still exist? No. Processing of export permits is now routine and smooth. We appreciate the government’s support in ensuring this happens. Talk to us about royalties: How much have you paid the government so far? Royalty payments will soon hit the Sh2 billion mark. Under the Mining Act 2016, this royalty is supposed to be shared with 20 per cent going to Kwale county government and 10 per cent to a community fund. There have been plans to increase the percentage to five per cent and even more. Tell us about this? We are in discussion with the government on increasing our royalty contribution and are hoping this will soon be finalised. What is Base Titanium’s contribution to the economy? Base Titanium alone represents 65 per cent of Kenya’s minerals output value. We contribute Sh20 billion annually through  our exports, of which 55 per cent goes to China. In so doing we have paid to the government nearly Sh2 billion in royalties and expect the contribution to gross domestic product (GDP) to reach Sh100 billion over the life of mine. We directly employ 750 people and indirect and induced employment created accounts for an estimated 2,800 jobs in the supply chain and employee spending. How has your activities been felt in the mining sector value chain? About 80 per cent of our non-labour inputs come from Kenyan suppliers, equivalent to an injection of Sh4 billion annually into the economy. This clearly demonstrates the value of the Kwale Mine to the national, county and local economies and points to the need to prioritise the development of the sector by vigorously promoting investment into exploration, which must start with the national airborne geophysical survey. How much has Kenya earned from the three products (Ilmenite, Rutile, Zircon) exported from Kwale? Total export value in the five years of operation of the mine so far amounts to about Sh80 billion. Base Titanium has been having issues with Kenya Revenue Authority on VAT refunds, what is the situation now? It seems that many who are supposed to get VAT refunds are currently not receiving them. We hope the authorities can change the way things are done and speed up the processes to support investments.  Tell us about Base Titanium’s community projects. Base Titanium’s investment in the community is central to its business objectives and operations. Through close collaboration with local communities, a number of key areas were identified to assist them with meeting basic needs, capacity building, establishing the physical infrastructure to improve living standards and developing sustainable livelihood programmes. We have so far invested Sh1.7 billion in building social amenities, providing health programmes, promoting commercial agriculture and have to date awarded 2,000 secondary and tertiary scholarships and bursaries.