Championing for better toilet facilities catapulted ANN MVURYA to the campus limelight, but it’s taking the reins of the students association of the largest higher education institution in the country that will really test the 20-year-old’s mettle. MILLIAM MURIGI met an extraordinary student and human rights activist On April 7 at the University of Nairobi, a shattering sound was heard. The sound of a glass ceiling breaking as a woman became president of the influential University of Nairobi Students Association (UNSA), formerly Students Organisation of Nairobi University (SONU), in the history of the institution. Ann Mwangi Mvurya, a Third Year Law student who began the leadership journey as secretary general of the institution’s Women Students Welfare Association (WOSWA) for the last six months, became the first female president of the body, succeeding Antony Manyara, a Fourth Year Architecture student. The 20-year-old student grew up in a village in Nakuru county, and describes her upbringing as good. “When I was growing up, I wanted to be a lawyer, specifically a human rights lawyer. I was brought up in a loving, Christian family and everybody was supportive,” says Ann. Asked about her unique last name, which she shares with a politician, Kwale governor Salim Mvurya, she says they are not related. It is as much a coincidence as her apparent semblance to another politician, Kirinyaga governor Anne Waiguru, that got many talking. “I take the comments that I resemble Ms Waiguru positively. She managed to become a governor. That is a great achievement. Since meeting her, I’ve been compelled to read more and also grow intellectually,” says the UNSA boss. As much as she had big dreams, she never thought she would hold an influential position of leadership at such an early age. However, she had unsuspectingly gotten into the game, way before she knew it could take her to the highest student leadership level in the country. When she was in primary school at Kings Academy, Nakuru she became the head girl, and when she joined Bahati Girls Secondary School in the same region, she was elected to hold the same position. After joining the University of Nairobi to study law, the plight of students, particularly female students, caught her attention. She decided to become a voice for the voiceless by engaging university leaders on different issues, but what thrust her to the limelight within campus was championing more sanitary toilets, especially for female students. The institution had the European Water Closet (EWC) type (toilet designed to sit) and the hygiene was wanting, with students frequently complaining of Urinary Tract Infections. COURAGE “Motivated by caring for my fellow students, I decided to raise the issue, and was surprised to later find out that so many were behind me, so I gained the courage to continue fighting for their rights,” explains Ann. Her efforts started bearing fruit and some changes could be seen within the school. For instance, the institution installed the squatting pan toilet type, which is considered more hygienic when it comes to spreading of toilet infections. All this led her to clinch the WOSWA secretary general position, but with university leadership mirroring the national government, how did the beauty delve into the murky waters that is politics? She says that in her first year on campus, she found it unfortunate that women lacked proper representation in the students’ body, as majority of those sitting at the decision-making table were men. So, in 2018, she vied for the presidential position, but didn’t make it to the ballot because according to the association’s constitution, First Year students were not allowed to vie for any position. She ended up being nominated to head UNSA secretariat, a position she’s held for the last six months. Ann was not discouraged and come this year, she decided to vie for the same position and this time round, she was fully aware of how abrasive, contentious and violent campus politics could get. The law student, who is currently interning at Milimani Law Courts, formed a formidable relationship with female comrades to help her wade the murky waters, which she says helped a great deal in her bid. BULLYING The campaign period was characterised by flamboyance, with some of the aspirants spending huge sums of cash, and since she didn’t have a lot of money, she opted to do her campaigns mostly at night. She looked for funds from students who believed in her. “Contrary to rumours, I did not get support from any politician. It was purely students believing in me that made me secure the seat. I used around Sh2 million for campaigns, money that was raised through harambees back home and also in different campuses,” explains Ann, adding that her parents, especially her father, were supportive before and during her campaigns. Going till the wee hours campaigning was a challenge, but she had enough security. Again, being the only woman among 12 aspirants, she experienced a lot of cyberbullying, which she says was also a challenge she had to surmount. “As a woman, men feel that they can attack your body, persona and character, which is not done for men. This was a great challenge for me during the campaigns,” regrets Ann. It’s a month since she got sworn in, and she says she has hit the ground running to deliver what she promised. Some of the issues outlined in her manifesto include students’ security, mentorship, exchange programmes and constitution amendments. She hopes to achieve all these and more through her leadership style, which entails many things. “As a leader, you must put in the time and be passionate, otherwise, you won’t go far. You must be in control, be disciplined, and you must set targets, as what gets measured gets done. Other than time, my position also requires a lot of commitment, both of which my team is ready to offer, thus, I’m positive about what we can achieve this year,” the presidents asserts. CLINGING TO POWER Unlike what has been the case with the body’s leaders in the past, particularly when it was SONU, Ann says that once she accomplishes her agenda, she will move on with her life, rather than clinging on to power for years. “We have so many spaces that need to be filled by young people, and because of this, I hope I will be in this position for one term, that is one year, and within that period, I hope I will have accomplished my agenda.” The young leader, who looks up to Michelle Obama, hopes to eventually join national politics. Other than being a student, she is also a farmer, currently practising mixed farming in her farm in Nakuru. Her latest venture is chia seeds. She also loves travelling during her free time, cooking and is a lawn tennis player. Also, to ensure she helps as many women as possible, she has launched a foundation, Ann Mwangi Foundation, which focuses on women empowerment on leadership. The foundation will be officially launched this month. “The country and the world in general is embracing women leadership. I want to show women that they can; it is possible, they just have to believe in themselves and deliver. I believe that there is always a time and space for everyone,” she concludes.