Lawyer Assa Nyakundi’s wife, Lydia Kung’a, has moved to the High Court seeking to stay a decision by Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) Noordin Haji to withdraw manslaughter charges against her husband. In her application filed under certificate of urgency, Kung’a also wants the court to bar DPP, Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti and chief magistrate at Kiambu Law Courts from preferring other charges against her husband relating to the shooting dead of their son Joseph Bongoko, pending the hearing of the application. Kung’a, through lawyer Danstan Omari, is seeking the orders on grounds that she was not involved when the State made the application to withdraw the manslaughter charges against her husband. “Without my involvement or the consideration of the families views, the DPP, DCI and the trial court have violated my rights as a victim to be fully involved and informed about the case before court,” she says. Kung’a is further seeking a declaration that her role as a victim includes the right to be informed of any action by the respondents desire to take in any criminal proceedings preferred against the accused person in the murder of her son. “Unless this court moves with speed and protects the applicant (Lydia Kung’a) and the rest of the victims, the respondent will continue to politicise and lead to the over publication of information without the victims involvement or consideration of their feelings,” reads the court papers. Kung’a further claims high ranking officers from the offices of the DPP and DCI have even gone to an extent of making public announcements through their interactions with the media that herself and his son-Noah Nyakundi are among the key prosecution witnesses, a fact that is hostile to the Victim Protection Act. “A declaration that the DPP and DCI actions of revealing and disclosing her name and that of her son as witnesses for the State is inimical to Section 8 of the Victim Protection Act,” she states. The application comes just a day after the DPP urged a Kiambu law court to drop manslaughter charges against Nyakundi. The DPP’s decision to withdraw the charges comes after Kinoti disowned a manslaughter charge against Nyakundi. Kinoti later interdicted two police officers assigned to probe Bogonko’s death. Kinoti says he was not briefed on the final investigation file that was eventually taken to court for the manslaughter charge. He also says that the two senior officers alongside two prosecutors allegedly engaged in a “cover-up” of the case which they believe there is overwhelming evidence to have a murder charge levelled against Nyakundi. Nyakundi was charged with manslaughter last week at a Kiambu court, after staying in a Nairobi hospital for nearly two months after his son’s death. He is accused of shooting Bogonko, his last born son, to death in what he claimed was an accidental shooting.