By Paul Muhoho
The Judiciary Friday rewarded the best performing work stations.
The Court of Appeal’s civil division, under the chairmanship of Justice Philip Waki, was rated “very good” for clearing 80 per cent of the case backlog.
The High Court in Kapenguria, stewarded by Justice Stephen Githinji, earned recognition for concluding 205 civil cases.The station was previously headed by Justice Ruth Sitati. The High Court in Makueni, led by Justice Charles Kariuki, who has been succeeded by Justice Hedwig Ong’udi, won the recognition award for overall best performing High Court in the caseload category of between 201 and 500 cases by  clearing 69 per cent of civil cases.
The High Court in Machakos, led by Justice Pauline Nyamweya, who was succeeded by Justice George Odunga, won accolades for delivering rulings and judgments within 60 days after final submissions by parties in more than 500 cases.
The Milimani Family Division in Nairobi, under the stewardship of Justice Aggrey Muchelule reduced case backlog by 73 per cent from 16,995 to 5,502. A total of 11,493 cases were heard and concluded.
The Employment and Labour Relations Court in Mombasa, under Justices James Rika, Onesmus Makau and Linnet Ndolo reduced case backlog by 18 per cent during the period under review. The Environment and Land Court in Chuka, under Justice Peter Njoroge, cleared 308 cases while Justice Nelly Matheka in Kakamega reduced case backlog by 74 per cent.
In the magistracy, Hola Law Courts under Alloyce Ndege, was recognised for clearing at least 500 cases while Wundanyi’s Nicholas Njagi, who was succeeded by David Ndungi, won the overall best performing cadre in the 501-1,000 case category.
Kilifi  courts, under Robinson Ondieki, who was succeeded by Justus Mulei, performed very well in the 1001-2000 case reduction category.
Meru courts, under Hannah Ndung’u cleared 2,370 civil cases while the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport magistrate Lukas Onyina cleared 100 per cent of the criminal cases.
The Milimani Children’s court, under Theresa Nyangena and Maryanne Murage, cleared 933 cases. The Nakuru magistrate’s court, under Godfrey Oduor, reduced case backlog by 49 per cent from 21,649 to 11,105 cases.
The best performance in Kadhi’s court was in Elwak in Mandera county, led by Hussein Mohamed Hassan, who cleared 148 disputes among muslims. In Mombasa, Chief Kadhi Al-Mudhar Hussein cleared 74 per cent of cases.
In Nairobi, the Kadhi’s court, led by Rashid Ali Omar and Hassan Sukyan reduced case backlog by 76 per cent from 218 cases to 53 cases.
The Registrar of the Supreme Court, Esther Nyaiyaki, won the recognition award for overall best performer for facilitating the equipping of the library and case management system. Director of Audit and Risk Management Ronald Wanyama was feted for having completed the audit of 39 court stations.
The office of the Judiciary Ombudsman was recognised for processing all complaints and disseminating 7,000 copies of materials to the public on complaint management and judicial processes.