This as Kuppet appeals to State to increase funding of secondary schools to help principals cope with rising food prices Enock Amukhale and Noven Owiti @PeopleDailyKe The Teachers Service Commission (TSC) has promoted 700 deputy head teachers in public primary and secondary schools to fill vacancies that arose during the first term due to retirement and natural attrition. At the same time,  Kenya National Union of Post Primary Education Teachers (Kuppet) national chairman Omboko Milemba has appealed to the national government to increase funding of the education in secondary schools to help principals operate smoothly. The 700 will be transferred to new stations effective this month, TSC spokesman Kihumba Kamotho says.  “Where there is a vacancy in a school, it might not be appropriate to promote the deputy of that school, so we bring in an experienced principal from another school. The deputy might later be transferred to another school or promoted to head a smaller institution,” added Kamotho. Full list The new appointments mean some head teachers will be reshuffled. As a result, TSC county directors we contacted last week said they were busy consulting on their lists of promotions and transfers, with some awaiting approval from TSC head office. In Kisumu county, several school heads have already been moved in the latest transfer done by the TSC.  County TSC director Adow Bardad said many headmasters are lined up for the transfer exercise, with a full list on those affected to be released by his office later this week. “We have a number of the teachers in the county going for transfer. My office will release a complete list once all the names are processed,” Bardad told Scholar. In  Vihiga county, those moved include St Paul’s Musalia Secondary School principal who has been moved to Lugari. His deputy Edwin Otieno was promoted and transferred to Koredo Secondary School in Homa Bay. Grace Barasa, a long-serving History and CRE teacher at Chavakali High School, was also promoted and transferred to Ndurio Secondary School in Nandi county. Barasa has served at Chavakali for 31 years and has been heading the school’s guidance and counselling department. In Emuhaya sub-county, Ebukhaya Secondary Principal Imbundu has been transferred to Bungoma Muslim School and replaced by a Mr Oduor. Francis Mugalo, deputy principal at Bugina Secondary School was another beneficiary after he was promoted to head St Paul’s Mushinaka Secondary School in Kakamega County. Mugalo has been deputy principal for 11 years. Another school affected was Lusengeli Secondary School, where Principal Mathews Mageso has been moved to Shikokho Secondary School in Kakamega county. Mageso, who is also Kenya Secondary Schools Heads Association vice chair Vihiga chapter, has seen the Lusengeli school population grow to 800 students, the highest mixed school population in Vihiga. On the appeal to Treasury to release Free Secondary Education funds, Kuppet boss Milemba said most schools face financial hardship because they are underfunded. He said secondary school principals are forced to depend on school fees parents pay to run the operations in their respective institutions. He made the remarks even as the government warned head teachers in public schools against increasing fees even as funds for second term are yet to be released. Education Cabinet secretary George Magoha has since said although they were aware that the schools were facing challenges, no teacher should dare increase school fees. Activity funds While also urging the government to release the funds, Kisumu county Kuppet Executive Secretary Zablon Awange said: “Delays in releasing these funds will curtail public school, operations, which in the past has led to blacklisting of schools by suppliers and creditors.” He said the second term will be dominated by extra-curricular activities such as games and music competitions and the Ministry of Education must ensure activity funds are also released on time and coaches and referees paid to motivate tutors involved. “The ministry should channel activity funds directly to schools instead of Education ministry officials running the fund,” Awange said.