A proposal by the Commissioner for Co-operatives to allow external investments into savings and credit co-operative organisations (Saccos) has been rejected. Co-operative leaders said yesterday that introduction of venture capitalists into the societies by the national government might jeopardise governance of the member organisations. They rejected the proposal by the Acting Commissioner for Co-operative Didacus Ityeng during a Co-operative Leaders’ Consultative meeting in Nairobi yesterday. The forum reviewed the newly- published Draft National Co-operatives Development Policy. Last year, the national government through an amendment of the Co-operative Act Cap 490 wanted to introduce a new category of members in the saccos – Social Impact Members (SIM). The proposal sparked anger and sharp reactions within the co-operative movement, prompting the government to withdraw the amendment bill. But, yesterday during the forum, Ityeng revisited the topic, saying societies can allow venture capitalists and thus be able to build up their finance base. This, he said, does not need to be legislated but based on an agreement between investors and society members. Venture capitalist proposal is among contentious issues included in the draft co-operative policy. Other issues are time of office, succession in the movement, age limit and audit of the co-operative societies. Ityeng said the national government would continue to audit  saccos based on its  expertise, and more so, because counties do not have capacities to undertake the same. The policy formulation has delayed since 2010 as stakeholders could not agree on some contentious issues. Forced takeover The leaders, under Co-operative Alliance of Kenya (CAK) unanimously rejected the proposal, saying it might create governance interruptions and forced takeovers by the investors. Executive director of the alliance Daniel Marube said the venture capitalist proposal is still the SIM idea but in a non-legislative approach. “This is a clever way of reintroducing the SIM idea. If allowed it can expose the credit unions  to numerous interruptions  as investors push their interests deeply  and to some extent, buyout the societies  and forcibly change management,” he said. “They can equally use the opportunities to raise funds to finance other activities such as the elections,” Marube added. Last year, CAK, the umbrella lobby for the 15 million-member-strong co-operative movement in the country, in a letter to the Clerk of the National Assembly and the Attorney-General warned that the proposed amendments would breach the long-standing policy and tradition of equality of membership that has guided saccos and made them thrive. “Once a person is admitted into membership of a co-operative society, he ranks equal with other members in respect to fundamental issues such as the minimum number of shares he subscribes to and pays for (and) one vote irrespective of shares held and interest in the society,” said Marube. A venture capitalist is an investor that provides capital to firms exhibiting high growth potential in exchange for an equity stake. This could be funding startup ventures or supporting small companies that wish to expand but do not have access to equities markets. The co-operative leaders also rejected a suggestion to limit them to two terms of office of five years, arguing that successive societies even in the developed world leaders are not subjected to age limits. Advanced age “Our institutions are democratic-based and so long as elected leaders are able to lead despite their advanced age we have no problem. Some of the old and successive societies in the country have not had issues of age limit and limited terms of office of the leaders,” said Marube. Kenya Union of Savings and Credit Co-operatives managing director George Ototo termed the age limit proposal a theoretical perspective which cannot hold. “In other countries leaders heading the societies are even 90 years old,” he said.