Over one and a half years after repeat General Election and 14 months after President Uhuru Kenyatta-Raila Odinga Handshake which calmed a tempestuous environment, Kenyans could be drifting back to a path of anxiety. True, we are resilient people who for the entire chunk of  the  post-independence period have taken sure-footed steps as we confronted, the far-in-between challenges, while celebrating our gains in unity. Kenyans are by and large confident that the current economic-spurred hiccups with their attendant constraints are transitory. As we tackle these and other setbacks, Kenyans look up to leaders to help keep the nation on level keel and even though our social and other structures have proved steady, reckless conduct is akin to trying fate. We cannot afford to experiment with the unknown. If the big picture; Big Four agenda goals are to be realised, its is imperative that we pull together, including weeding out any threats to implementing the agenda. The temptation to throw up political jigsaw puzzles without certainty of how they would land is ill-advised. Politicians have valid personal interests, being who they are, but we urge them to keep their gaze on the big picture. And thanks to those who steered this nation before them and our founding fathers, the nation-State is laid on carefully constructed political foundation. It should never be that so long before the next polls,  the intensity, jostling and vibrancy of our politics should be cause for concern and not because politicians should stop politicking, but because of apprehension that it all has streaks of becoming self-serving. In an environment more like a prelude to a General Election, political players are trading insults,using insolent language and heated rhetoric. Unfortunately, the ordinary Kenyan is  prone to vulnerability and easily predisposed to irrational tendencies. Under the circumstances and with the emergence of politicians for and against Deputy President William Ruto ascending to presidency, the way forward must remain within the framework of constitutionality. Excessively partisan interests are often antithetical to the patriotic common good. It’s time to re-focus on pragmatic messages of hope, and a resolve to get on with our lives. Let us not forget the costs of getting stuck in lingering election mode, for as things stand, it’s already impacting adversely on our socio-economic and political well being. 