Dorcas Mbatia and Festus Kipchumba @PeopleDailyKe Baringo Senator Gideon Moi yesterday joined Team Kieleweke in calls to support President Uhuru Kenyatta’s efforts to stamp out corruption and deliver on the Big Four agenda. Addressing faithful at Methodist Church in Kenya (MCK) Runogone Church in Imenti North, he said they would continue to support the President’s fight against graft and deliver the promises he made to Kenyans. Accompanied by Homa Bay Woman Rep Gladys Wanga, MPs William Kamket (Tiaty), Maoka Maore (Igembe North), Mercy Gakuya (Kasarani) and Maina Kamanda (Nominated), they at the same time supported the Handshake between President Uhuru and ODM leader Raila Odinga saying the unity  deal saved the nation from plunging into chaos. Gideon said the Big Four agenda constitutes Kenyans are looking forward to achieve and urged all politicians to give the President time to deliver his promises. “There is no need of too much politicking. We need to give our President time to deliver his promises, after that we will all get to the political arena and Kenyans will scrutinise us and elect the best leader whom they will feel he or she is  fit to lead the nation,” said Gideon. He added that corruption is a cancer that the President needs to be supported Kenyans to eradicate by Kenyans. “We all need to support President Uhuru and the former premier in the fight against graft because they have proved that they have the interest of Kenyans at heart,” said the Kanu chairman. Kamanda asked religious leaders to join hands in the war on graft terming corruption as the biggest enemy in the country. “Corruption war is bigger and more fierce than Mau Mau war. Please let all support the Head of State to fight it,” he said. Meanwhile, the supremacy battle between Deputy President William Ruto and Gideon played out on Saturday during the burial of Mzee Wilson Chepkoit in Salawa, Baringo Central as rival MPs took each other on. Tiaty MP William Kamket, a key ally of Senator Moi, threw the first salvo warning his colleague William Cheptumo (Baringo North) to read the signs or else he will find himself in the political cold. Cheptumo is a key supporter of DP Ruto and also chairs the powerful Legal Affairs Committee in Parliament. Kamket termed as propaganda claims in the social media last week indicating Gideon had visited DP Ruto at his Karen home as part of reconciliation efforts saying the former was not interested  in such a meeting. However, Cheptumo dismissed Gideon’s candidature saying he was no match for Ruto whom, according to him, was already commanding huge support across the country. He said the only option left for Gideon is to support Ruto because he is ripe for presidency.