Martin Mwita @MwitaMartin The Competition Authority of Kenya (CAK) has approved the proposed merger between Commercial Bank of Africa (CBA) and NIC Group, taking the planned amalgamation to a near closure. CAK has, however, given a condition that none of the 1,872 employees of the merged entity “are declared redundant, for a period of 12 months from the date of closing of the transaction in Kenya.” The regulator said the transaction qualifies for a merger based on the entities’ business models, which include retail and corporate banking services. Giving a green light to the two to proceed with their deal, the authority has concluded that the merger is not a threat to competition since Tier 1 banks, together, control 55.32 per cent of the market. The two financial institutions will become the second largest bank in Kenya by customer deposits and third largest by total assets, with a strong liquidity profile of 49 per cent for the group and 51 per cent in Kenya. The combined entity will have a market share of 10.67 per cent, second after KCB which enjoys a 14.14 per cent share of the market. Cooperative Bank of Kenya will be third with 9.93 per cent share, Equity Bank (9.85 per cent), Standard Chartered Bank (7.11 per cent) and Diamond Trust Bank (6.72 per cent). The two lenders are now awaiting approvals by the Capital Markets Authority (CMA), Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) and Bank of Tanzania where the lender has operations. “Any progress made will be communicated to the public,” CBA Chief Executive Jeremy Ngunze told Business Hub on phone. The merger will bring the total customer base to more than 41.1 million in five countries— Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Rwanda and Ivory Coast, with over 100 branches. The institutions are expecting to commence operating as a single entity in September. The combined bank will have a capital base of Sh63 billion (group) and Sh53billion (Kenya), placing it at a strategic position to increase lending capacity, cost efficiency and profitability . metrics. “It is anticipated that the merged entity will continue facing competition from Tier 1 banks who, together, control 55.32 per cent of the market. Based on the foregoing, the Authority’s view is that the proposed transaction is unlikely to lead to lessening of competition in the relevant product market for retail and corporate banking services in Kenya,” CAK said on its decision.