Martin Mwita @MwitaMartin Majority of manufacturers, at 60 per cent, believe the country’s economy stagnated in the first quarter of this year, as the sector continues to face headwinds which could dampen its growth and planned expansion under the Big Four agenda. In the first quarter, manufacturing barometer by the Kenya Association of Manufacturers (KAM) indicates only 21 per cent believe the economy grew in the first three months of the year, while 19 per cent of surveyed manufacturers believe the economy was declining. The industry players’ biggest concern is the high prices of imported raw materials where 61 per cent feel this could affect growth. Pressure from increased wages (57 per cent) is another concern in the wake of a push by the Central Organisation of Trade Unions (COTU) for a15 per cent wage increase, which has been opposed by the Kenya Federation of Employers (FKE). The call for a wage increment was repeated by COTU secretary general Francis Atwoli at last week’s Labour Day celebrations. “Rampant corruption and increased bureaucracy in government agencies is hampering Kenya’s growth prospects,” part of respondents in the survey note said. Port delays “In January and February, we experienced delays in clearance of our cargo at the port and Inland Container Depot in Nairobi, affecting our production operations. Delays in payment of suppliers by government has brought liquidity challenges from the market especially to SMEs. The cash crunch is dampening consumers’ purchasing power,” the manufacturers said, majority of whom are in the plastic and rubber sub-sector, food and beverages, chemical and the metal and allied sectors. Other concerns are decreasing profitability (54 per cent), taxation policies (48 per cent), legislative and regulatory uncertainty, unhealthy competition and energy price stability (43 per cent, exchange rate stability (38 per cent), lack of demand (33 per cent) and capital constraints (28 per cent). The majority (52 per cent) are, however, optimistic about the economy going forward with 48 per cent expressing optimism that the manufacturing sector would grow. “Almost half (48 per cent) of manufacturers are planning new investments. The remaining 52 per cent are reluctant to invest due to challenges such as delays in VAT refunds and an uncertain business environment,” KAM says in its report released last week.