Sofapaka, Gor record identical wins to maintain league chase as Shikalo’s magic helps Bandari pile more misery on Vihiga Two first-half goals from Kepha Aswani and John Avire were all Sofapaka needed to dismiss Western Stima 2-0 in a SportPesa Premier League (SPL) match at Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos yesterday. The highly-physical match saw Stima play the last 12 minutes a man less after defender Berry Kote was sent off for a second bookable offence. Sofapaka dominated play in the first stanza and raced into the lead in the 21st minute, Aswani delivering a superb finish from a tight angle past Stima custodian Samuel Odhiambo. Avire then scored the second on the half hour mark when he picked his spot at close range to beat Odhiambo. Winless streak In Kisumu, champions Gor Mahia edged out Chemelil Sugar 2-0 to maintain their seven-point lead at the top of the 18-team standings. Chemelil could have gone ahead in the first minute when Vincent Mahaga missed a glorious opportunity. K’Ogalo kept piled pressure and got their reward in the 35th minute when Kenneth Muguna scored. Both sides then huffed and puffed in the second half until the 76th minute when winger Samuel Onyango extended K’Ogalo’s lead. At Kasarani Stadium, Kariobangi Sharks ended an 11-match winless streak with a hard-fought 3-2 win over Mathare United to reduce pressure on coach William Muluya. Sharks’ marksmen were Eric Kapaito, Duke Abuya and Brian Masaba while Clifford Alwanga and Cliff Nyakeya struck for Mathare. In Machakos, AFC Leopards let a 1-0 lead slip as they drew 1-1 with relegation-threatened Zoo FC. Ferocious strike Paul Were gave Leopards the lead in the 21st minute and it looked like Ingwe were walking away with all points until Zoo drew level in the 89th minute. Meanwhile, a ferocious strike from dead-ball specialist William Wadri and a rare long-range effort by goalkeeper Faruk Shikalo was enough to hand Bandari a 2-0 win over hosts Vihiga United at Bukhungu Stadium in Kakamega.Vihiga controlled possession, creating a number of chances with Amos Kigadi and Chris Masinza fluffing their lines. That wastefulness proved costly as Bandari went ahead when Wadri curled in a free-kick following a foul on Wycliffe Ochomo from Vihiga defender Benard Ochieng. Shikalo then produced a moment of brilliance when his goal kick beat Vihiga shot-stopper Levis Opiyo who was off his line in added time to make it 2-0. Reports by Charles Thuku, Fred Likuyani and Daniel Ogendo