Mutuku Mwangangi @PitzPitah The trouble-ridden Shalom Community Hospital in Machakos Town was yesterday closed down after seven-month-old baby Ethan Muendo was administered with a fatal drug overdose. Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board (KMPDB) said the boy was given a dose 20 times more than he could bear. KMPDB further established that the injection was administered by a community health worker rather than by a professional nurse. Shalom Hospital sprang into the limelight two weeks ago when a pregnant woman gave birth on the floor as nurses sipped tea and engaged in casual banter. Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua and KMPDB swiftly ordered a thorough audit of the hospital even as it emerged that the nurse on duty on the day in question was not licensed to operate. In the baby’s death incident,  the woman who administered the drug overdose is a support staff. She claimed that the nurse was “busy”. Withdraw licence KMPDB’s Prof Frederick Were said the baby was administered with morphine, a first line painkiller commonly used in cases of acute and chronic pain. “The 2ml of drug that was administered contains 20mg and since the baby was seven months old, and weighing about 10kg, the correct dosage was only one milligram,” he said. Morphine is in a class of drugs known as opiates and is used as the last line analgesic, commonly used by patients suffering from excruciating pain and in terminal illnesses such as cancer or freak accidents. Yesterday, Mutua and KMPDB chief executive Daniel Yumbya ordered the immediate closure of the facility. KMPDB withdrew the operation licence of the hospital while Mutua recalled its business permit. The hospital directors, doctor in charge, pharmacist in charge, administrator, clinical officer who prescribed the drug as well as the patient attendant who administered the injection have since been arrested. They will be charged with manslaughter, among other charges. The more than 100 patients admitted at the facility will be transferred to other hospitals within 48 hours. KMPDB is this Friday set to issue a report on the incident in which a woman delivered on the floor of the hospital. Mutua urged residents to seek services from government  hospitals.