Kenyan music is at the crossroads. Has the society become too accommodating, are young artistes too eager for some little and lame fame and is music censorship imperative? Alfayo Onyango, Elly Gitau and Sandra Wekesa delve into the thorny issue of gross lyricism amongst fledging Kenyan artistes All hell broke loose when Kenya Film Classification Board (KFCB) CEO Dr Ezekiel Mutua banned budding artiste Alvindo’s first song Takataka. In a cold and stern press conference, the warning was thorough. It intended to send chills down the spine of the producers of the song for their misogynistic art that was deemed harmful by the content-rating regulator. Prior to Mutua’s ban, the death of university student Ivy Wangeci shocked the nation, especially after the revelation that her alleged boyfriend Naftali Kinuthia had butchered her using an axe. It was at the height of this incident that Mutua struck. He later asked the police to arrest the artiste and his producer for their failure to honour the board’s summon to appear before it. Recently, a young Nairobi-based music group called Sheddy Empire released a song titled Pigwa Shoka. It completely reopened the wounds of the family and friends of the late Wangeci. As if this wasn’t enough, the group crossed the line to release the song’s video, with cast members seen holding axes and machetes with what seemed as blood dripping off them. Different people who included TV personality Terryanne Chebet steamrolled a heavy online backlash as the song was criticised for promoting violence, especially against women. RIPPLE EFFECT “There are two things to note. An offensive song that is amplifying incel and misogynistic behaviour towards women. There is nowhere in the world it would be okay to perform it. Being specific about the Pigwa Shoka song, I am glad it has been banned from the public spaces. As far as KFCB goes, it’s not its mandate to determine what content is good or immoral. Kenya is a secular state and personal beliefs should not dictate public policy,” celebrated record producer Tim Rimbui told Spice. On Sunday, KFCB asked the Directorate of Criminal Investigations to arrest the creators of Pigwa Shoka. A day later, Sheddy Empire took to social media to issue a public apology, citing that it did the song “out of fun and creativity”. David Mathenge aka Nameless, broke into the music scene in 1999 with his song Megarider, which was about a broke young man who was trying to seduce a woman, but only had enough money for a bus ticket and not the high life she desired. Produced by veteran music producer Tedd Josiah, it propelled Nameless to unprecedented fame and his star shone even brighter thereafter. In a career spanning two decades, the singer has released many hit jams and rarely has he courted controversy. According to him, social media has brought in unrivalled influence to the current crop of artistes, as compared to musicians of yesteryear. “Social media has brought about very interesting experiences. Unlike when I was a budding artiste, nowadays people have personal platforms to share their music on. During our time, we relied on one platform — the mainstream media, whose operations are properly controlled. The case is different on social media. You upload your content, however crazy, and it reaches as many people as possible,” says the Sinzia hit maker. He adds that even in their bid to attract attention and fame, budding artistes should know the boundaries of self-expression. “Artistes just need to know that they don’t have to go to certain extremes to get noticed. And that is where KFCB come in; to regulate what is aired because the content influences the masses negatively or positively. Many of these artistes are trying to find their footing in music, but there ought to be guidelines. There are a lot of mentorship programmes going on and such artistes should get in there to know what really they need to do. As an artiste, being innovative to stand out is good, but it should never have a negative influence to the society,” he says. Nameless says that social media is a perfect tool to spread positive messages and artistes, and other digital content providers should use it to their advantage to build their portfolios and integrity. “As much as you are looking for attention, there are better ways of seeking it. No one wants to have a negative image out there,” he concludes. ACTION TAKEN On Tuesday, Mutua said KFCB was committed to supporting Kenyan online content creators to venture into online business by creating clean content with positive messages. The board promised an annual cash award of Sh1 million to YouTubers who attain one million subscribers by “populating their platforms with clean and innovative content” in a competition dubbed ‘One Million for One Million’. “KFCB takes this opportunity to also celebrate other creatives who represent what we would like our younger generation and other cultures to emulate about us — our unity in diversity, our rich cultural heritage, the importance of family and community, the value of hard work, honesty, perseverance respect for elders and, even more relevant than any other time today, respecting, honouring, celebrating and empowering our girls and women,” said Mutua. He added that the board was working with YouTube to establish a framework and a criterion to turn positive uploads into money. He said: “As a way of buttressing YouTube’s efforts and in support of our campaign for clean content, the board pledges to award the winner with Sh200,000 as an incentive to generate more clean content that celebrates and promotes our identity, culture and moral values and aspirations.” THE BOUNDARIES So, why does KFCB ban content? “The argument that banning inappropriate content amounts to unwittingly promoting it is warped logic. Our mandate is not to protect adults who want to willingly harm themselves. Our work is to rate and classify content for age suitability, then adults can choose what to watch. However, protection of children from exposure to harmful content is the responsibility of both the government and parents. We must all ensure that children are not exposed to bad content,” says Mutua. “From 2018, the biggest enemy known to Kenyan arts sector is the government through bureaucratic bodies such as KFCB. I think the board needs to grow and observe things more realistically, and look for ways to support the arts rather than cripple it with meaningless censorship laws. Anybody in their right mind cannot take what Alvindo did for a serious song, and it is more of a meme or a troll, hence no grey area in deciphering the song’s credibility. However, because of publicity-related issues, Ezekiel Mutua had to play the devil’s advocate, to be noticed,” says Black Crystal Media CEO Chebon Collins. Singer Mr Lenny feels that no matter the circumstances, music sensorship should be properly guided within the law. “You can’t just ban music all over without being fair. You ought to ban bad music not just from Kenya, but also from outside our borders. Yes there’s music done by Kenyan artistes and it’s not appealing, but we have a lot of music coming from outside our borders that has bad content, yet it still gets massive airplay. So, the question we should be asking is; where are our artistes getting influence from?” he poses. He adds: “Unlike our days, social media has had a lot of impact in the kind of music our artistes are doing today. It’s going to be difficult to stop it, but I believe it starts from our upbringing. Many parents today seem to be busy with work and other stuff that they have neglected their parental duties. So, I think it’s the responsibility the parents, teachers, government and the society to influence behavioural change and attitude of young artistes for them to be responsible enough to create good content,” says the Leo hit singer. SOCIETAL INFLUENCES Stephen Asatsa, a psychologist at Catholic University, says the type of music that a society listens to can be used to measure moral standards of the society as many people would like to listen to music that aligns to their intrinsic beliefs and value system because it has the power to shape how a society thinks and acts. “In the recent past, the Kenyan society has become more liberal in terms of moral standards with parental voice slowly diminishing. The development in social media complicates the already bad situation as children and adolescents continue to access content that is not vetted,” he says. Benson Agaya, a sociologist at University of Nairobi, says the responsibility of content control lies on the government rather than parents. He says: “Parents can’t seem to control what their children watch because they might decide to do it in private. Therefore, proper regulation of music with negative energy is needed and this is a government responsibility.”