Irene Githinji @Gitshee The Kenya National Union of Teachers (Knut) yesterday maintained its opposition to the implementation of Competency Based Curriculum (CBC), discrediting it as “dead on arrival”. Secretary General Wilson Sossion urged members to revert to the old system of using outcome-based pedagogical framework until an agreement on the curriculum review and reform process is reached. He accused Education Cabinet Secretary Prof George Magoha and the Teachers Service Commission (TSC) of arrogance, intolerance and lack of respect. He said no amount of intimidation and coercion would deter the union’s quest to push for order in the process, wondering how a curriculum could be rolled out without a legitimate policy framework and necessary statutory instruments borne out of public participation. “How can a curriculum be rolled out against the backdrop of uncoordinated and poorly done pilot programme and without summative evaluation to inform the roll out? How can a curriculum be rolled out via policing and interdiction of teachers who have genuinely expressed their concerns,” Sossion posed. Cart before horse Making reference to the national curriculum policy launched on Wednesday by Magoha, Sossion said due process was not followed, in what he claims was a clear case of putting the cart before the horse. “It sounds strange and unprofessional for Magoha to purport to be launching the National Curriculum Policy that will anchor CBC before the summative evaluation of the pilot phase of the curriculum to establish whether what was piloted is better than what was there before,” said Sossion. Among the recommendations the union leader offered included the involvement and participation of stakeholders in the development and implementation as well as adequate infrastructure to cater for increased number of learners saying as the current format favoured private schools. Knut also wants a standard assessment procedure for learners and accused the Ministry, TSC, KICD and KNEC of failing to agree on it. Ultimatum “Any attempt to suppress dissenting voices on curriculum reforms will be met with full force by Kenyan teachers. It is sad and pathetic the ministry and TSC officials continue misleading the public that the curriculum reform process is well organised, systematic and highly professional,” Sossion asserted. He issued a seven-day ultimatum to TSC to clear interdicted teachers, failure to which the union will take unspecified action.