In what appears to be a defiant political stand and show of might by politicians allied to William Ruto, more than 100 legislators have signed up to attend an inter-denominational prayer rally in Murang’a on Saturday, to which the Deputy President has been invited as chief guest. The prayers, cancelled at the last minute two weeks ago, drew criticism from the anti-Ruto group, with the nominated MP Maina Kamanda-led Kieleweke team accusing the organisers of hiding behind the church to dabble in politics. Kamanda’s team accuses Ruto’s Tanga Tanga group of putting the country on an election mode and defying  President Uhuru Kenyatta’s advice to tone down politics for the sake of development. Not involved And yesterday evening, Ruto’s office denied knowledge of the planned prayer rally, but hastened to add that even if it is on, the DP was not involved in its planning. “I have been saying this since two days ago that we are not involved in the planning of prayer meeting or rally in Murang’a. I am not aware of any such meeting,” Ruto’s spokesman David Mugonyi told People Daily by telephone. Organisers say the prayer rally will be presided over by 15 clerics from the region. It was initially meant to be a Central Kenya affair, but the organisers said they had decided to extend invitations to “friendly colleagues” to give it a national outlook and preach unity among Kenyans. A list seen by the People Daily last evening had signatures of 132 MPs, who are supporting Ruto’s 2022 State House bid. They are said to have confirmed their attendance at the meeting to be held at Kimorori Trading Centre in Kenol, Murang’a county. Members of the County Assembly have also been invited. Among those in the list are; National Assembly Majority Leader Adan Duale,  Woman Representatives Catherine Waruguru (Laikipia), Ann Ngirici (Kirinyaga), Sabina Chege (Murang’a), Janet Nangambo (Trans Nzoia), Senator Mithika Linturi (Meru); MPs David Gikaria (Nakuru Town East), Silvanus Osoro (South Mugirango), Richard Tong’i (Nyaribari Chache), Joash Nyamoko (North Mugirango),  John Waluke (Sirisia), Mululu Ijendi (Malava) and Emanuel Wangwe (Navakholo). Mathira MP, Rigathi Gachagua oversaw the signing of the list. Strong support According to an insider, the meeting is meant to show the country that the DP has strong support in Parliament to counter the push by Opposition leader Raila Odinga for a referendum after the Building Bridges Initiative, a product of the March 9, 2018 Handshake between the ODM leader and President Uhuru. The referendum agenda being push by some leaders will have to go to Parliament for approval and will require two thirds approval. Whoever  has the support of the majority will carry the day. Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro, who will be the host, said he expected at least 150 MPs to attend. “The message we want send is that Ruto has a following and support from all regions of the country,” he said. The last time such a meeting was planned organisers claimed unnamed State apparatus were piling pressure on them to call it off. Lari MP Jonah Mburu said he had cancelled a trip abroad to attend the meeting. “I am a Ruto supporter and wouldn’t want to miss the big occasion. This has forced me to postpone  my trip to a later date,” he said. His Runyejes counterpart Michael Muchangi also said he would be in Murang’a and will join his colleague bishops from the Akorino sect in prayers.