DPPS Deputy President William Ruto has asked Kenyans to consider using alternative dispute resolving mechanisms instead of going to court. He said this would ease pressure on the Judiciary and reduce case backlogs. Addressing the Executive Committee of the African Ombudsman and Mediators Association (AOMA) breakfast meeting at his Karen residence Friday, Ruto said lack of dispute resolution mechanisms can be the source of conflicts. “Inadequate dispute resolution mechanisms always escalate disputes into conflicts, leading to violence, insecurity and political instability,” he explained. Ruto called for the institutionalisation of the administrative justice delivery mechanisms to improve the quality of governance and stability in Africa. “Mechanisms should be created in every country and entrenched in the constitutional framework with a mandate to address abuse of power, injustices and improper, oppressive or perverse official conduct,” he said. He said Kenya will work with AOMA towards ensuring that the body partners with the African Union (AU) in managing areas of disputes in the continent. “Disputes should not lead to conflicts and instability in the continent. We will work progressively towards serving the interests of the citizens,” said the DP. He called on leaders to take positively constructive criticisms that will better delivery services to the public. AOMA President, who is also the Public Protector of South Africa Busisiwe Mkwebane, asked African leaders to focus on strengthening ombudsmen in their countries. Kenya’s Ombudsman Florence Kajuju, who is the Secretary General of AOMA, said the opening up of government to the people of Kenya had intensified civil engagement in the development of the country. “Open governance ensures citizens get information in time, as a result, they are able to participate in the development of their countries,” she noted. Kajuju called on other African countries to embrace open governance strategy, saying the continent cannot be transformed when governments operate in silos.