Kinyuru Munuhe @Kinyurumunuhe Businessman Richard Ngatia is now the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry (Kncci) president after all his challengers withdrew from the race and backed his bid. In an announcement made at the chamber headquarters in Nairobi and presided over by the outgoing  president — Kiprono Kittony — flanked by James Mureu and Abdulwalli Sharrif said they had unanimously agreed to support Ngatia (pictured). Effectively, Ngatia is the new boss for the national business lobby group. Kittony said he will officially hand over office to the new president on June 8. “I want to tell you that we had three contenders for the post of the chamber president. Shariff, Mureu and Ngatia. Shariff and Mureu agreed to step down and support Ngatia,” Kittony said. Ngatia becomes the first national chamber boss to assume office unopposed. “After a deep reflection we agreed to work together,” Ngatia said. Other two contenders, Stephen Mbugua and Laban Onditi, had earlier stepped down in Ngatia’s favour while Gor Semelang’o withdrew from the race citing personal reasons. Kittony said a transition committee has already been set up to ensure the necessary handing over is done right from the county levels. So far, 44 out of the 47 counties have conducted their elections. Three candidates for the vice presidents positions and ten regional directors will be elected on June 8. For the last three years, Ngatia served as the chairman of Kncci Nairobi chapter.  In his manifesto, Ngatia promises to set up a special chamber fund to help Small and Medium Enterprises to remain afloat. “I decided to reach out to my brothers so that we can work together. I want to say it is time to emulate leaders who served before us. Sharrif has numerous contacts both within and outside the country while Mureu has vast experience and institutional memory. Team nguvu grew stronger every day. In On his part, Shariff committed to support their new boss for the benefit of the business people.  “After deep consultations with my brothers, I am stepping down for the unity of this chamber and I wish Mr Ngatia well. We will work with you fully.” Shariff said.