Massimiliano Allegri’s future as Juventus coach is in the spotlight as the champions travel to Roma in Serie A on Sunday with mounting speculation over his position. Juventus have already wrapped up their eighth consecutive title, and Allegri’s fifth in as many years since replacing Antonio Conte in 2014. The 51-year-old (pictured) had insisted that he was staying despite the team’s flop quarter-final Champions League exit at the hands of Ajax, which led to criticism of his management after the arrival of Cristiano Ronaldo had boosted hopes of a first Champions League in over two decades. They were also booted out of the Coppa Italia by Atalanta. Having nothing left to play for with three games to go this season has given Allegri time to take stock, with a meeting reportedly set to take place with club president Andrea Agnelli. “We’ll sit down with the club and think about the future, analyse this season and what could be done better, to have a team ready to aim for success in all competitions next season,” Allegri has said. The former AC Milan and Cagliari coach still has a year left on his contract with his annual salary 7.5 million euros ($8.4 million). Paris Saint-Germain, another club looking to break their Champions League curse, are reported to be interested in Allegri, while Antonio Conte, has been linked to a return to Turin where he won the first three of this current run of league titles, along with current Conte’s successor at Chelsea Maurizio Sarri. Juventus travel to Roma having being held in the two games they’ve played since claiming the league title 1-1 draws with both Inter Milan and Torino. Roma have lost just one of their last seven home games against Juventus drawing three and winning three. Their last defeat was back in May 2014. Juventus will also have a role in who qualifies along with them and second-placed Napoli for the Champions League next season. Five teams are in the chase with Inter Milan third on 63 points, followed by Atalanta (62), AC Milan (59), Roma (59) and Torino (57).  -AFP