Zadock Angira and Martin Mwita @PeopleDailyKe The government has banned outdoor advertising of gambling as well as advertising of gambling on all social media platforms, The notice to betting, lotteries and public gaming licence holders dated April 30 and circulated yesterday is the latest move to tame the multi-billion shilling sector and protect consumers from addiction. Betting Control and Licensing Board (BCLB) also banned adverts  between 6am and 10pm, which mainly affects television and radio advertisement. The move now pushes gambling content to watershed hours, a blow to gambling firms which have counted on advertisement to woo their clients. The board has further banned the endorsement of gambling operations by celebrities. Former Harambee Stars midfielder and celebrity footballer McDonald Mariga is among those with multi-million-shilling deal with gambling firms. Mariga signed to become Betin’s brand ambassador in September 2017 in a deal that entails having the player’s image appear in a majority of the betting firm‘s merchandise, including billboards, TV and newspaper adverts. The board’s acting Director Liti Wambua said the new directive has to be complied with on or before May 30, adding that any form of advertisement of gambling has to be approved by the board. “We wish to remind you that gaming is a demerit good and all demerit goods have the potential to harm the consumer with a possibility of leading to addiction as well as some disorder,”  Wambua said in the notice. “Such an advertisement must contain a warning message about the consequences of gambling including its addictiveness,” the notice added. The warning message must constitute a third of the actual advertisement and be of the same font. Last month, Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i also issued a directive that no betting company would be allowed to operate from July 1, without paying their taxes in full. Noting that the betting companies had taken advantage of Kenyans, the CS directed BCLB to scrutinise all companies and forward a report in a month. Kenya is among the top countries leading in sports betting and various other means of gambling. A GeoPoll rapid survey done on youth aged between 17 and 35 years in Kenya, Nigeria, Uganda, South Africa, Ghana, and Tanzania revealed that Nairobi alone was housing 18 gambling facilities, 128 table games and 908 video poker and slot machines. Knock-on effects The government’s directive is likely to have a knock-on effects on the economy where betting firms cough billions to remain in business. It is estimated the gambling industry has an estimated annual turnover of about Sh200 billion, enough to fund half of the government’s Sh450.9 billion planned spending on the Big Four in the next financial year commencing July 1. Betting firms are among top advertisers in the country, hence the move is likely to deny county governments revenue from billboards, while putting pressure on the already struggling mainstream media houses which have recently counted on the betting industry for adverts. A survey by Reelforge, a media monitoring and intelligence firm, indicates that four betting firms which fall among Kenya’s top 10 advertisers spent a total of Sh4.3 billion on adverts in three months alone last year (April-June). These are Tatua (Sh1.8 billion), Lotto (Sh1.4 billion), Betboss (Sh633.6 million) and Sport Pesa (Sh432.7 million), competing with leading advert spenders such as Pwani Oil, Safaricom and East Africa Breweries Ltd which spent Sh1.3 billion, Sh1.2 billion and Sh1 billion respectively during the same period. Players in the industry said BLCB should focus on addressing stringent minimum requirements for any gambling ads not ban the advertisements, adding that if this ban stands, media houses stand to lose a lot of revenue, leading to possible staff downsizing while those in the advertising industry and support systems will lose jobs. “Betting is one of the very few sectors of the economy that is growing, this ban will take them under then what? Revoke the ban, set standards for adverts,” an industry player who sought anonymity told Business Hub.