As ‘play and support Kenyan content’ debate rages on, a lot of gaping holes need to be filled and questions answered on why Kenyans don’t support their own, writes Chebet Korir #PlayKenyanMusic. This has been one of the most trending slogans in 254 from the beginning of the year, but it seems to have fallen on deaf ears, literally. A much-awaited all-Kenyan music festival dubbed Hype Fest that was scheduled to take place last weekend at the Ngong Racecourse in Nairobi was abruptly called off due to poor ticket sales. Ten Kenyan artistes who included The Kansoul, Khaligraph Jones, Ochungulo Family and Naiboi, and a stellar line-up of deejays were slated to headline. However, it was alleged that only less than a hundred tickets had been sold, with only a few days to the hyped-up concert. This forced organisers to push it to next month. “It’s with deep regret that we have to push this event forward to the 29th of June due to circumstances beyond our control. We promise to give you a bigger and better experience than anticipated. For those that had purchased tickets and would like a refund, kindly contact events@Ticketsasa.com to start the processing. Sorry for any inconvenience caused to you the fan and all artistes that were scheduled to perform. It’s still #PlayKE (sic),” read a social media statement by the organisers. THE GAPS Soon after the announcement, Kenyan music pioneers who included Buddha Blaze and Fundi Frank took to social media trying to find answers as to why an event featuring an all-Kenyan cast could be cancelled due to low-ticket sales. Being one of the few Kenyan events that was scheduled to take place this year, its postponement has reignited the debate of whether Kenyans will ever support local content. Maurice Tha General is a remarkable talent manager, having managed artistes such as KRG the Don and Arrow Bwoy. He says Kenyan music is in era where it’s viewed as a “by the way” by the majority of Kenyans. “For how long will we be having this play Kenyan music, support Kenyan content conversation? It actually disturbs me because we have a lot of good music sprouting from every corner, but still we choose to hold dear those who do not even support the Kenyan craft,” he laments. He insists local musicians have stepped up and they are doing something commendable, but remains doomed if their art is not supported in Kenya, a factor that has led to the industry’s stunted growth. THE RESPONSE “It’s funny how a Kenyan festival can be cancelled due to low-ticket sales, whereas there is a Jamaican artiste scheduled to perform soon in Nairobi and the tickets are almost sold out, adding to the fact that ticket prices are exorbitantly crazy,” event organiser and publicist Patrick  Sampao told Spice. He adds, “Homegrown events have never been appreciated and we shouldn’t complain because it all trickles down to us as fans. Why would you support an artiste from another country and pay for tickets through the nose just to secure an entry to their concert, while a Kenyan fest asks for much less? It’s time we open our eyes and realise that we can make Kenyan music a global anthem, but it all starts at home; by supporting our own.” In terms of airplay, DJ Sami Flinch and co-founder of Fast Class Entertainment says: “What is Kenyan music without Kenyan support? In all my gigs, I have managed to play Kenyan music and the response from Kenyans has been good. Clubs are actually having Kenyan theme nights and it has worked out well for them. I just think it’s a matter of proper promotion and doing more local gigs.” Hype Festival expected traction, having been announced at a time when the debate on why local content doesn’t get the support it deserves from within, while Nigerian and Tanzanian musicians make a killing in Kenya. Liz Ahadi, an upcoming gospel artiste, gave her two cents saying: “Let’s not lie; Naija and Bongo music still dominates the industry and the artistes are aware of that. We have allowed them to get comfortable here and that’s why they come to Kenya to launch their albums. Think about it, can a Kenyan artiste go out of the country and do that? Will they get the love from another country when they can barely fill up a show?” FINAL WORD Bashka the Model, an entrepreneur and event organiser says that since the introduction of ‘play and support Kenyan music’, people have started embracing the culture of supporting local content. “Of course, not everyone will be on the same boat and not every Kenyan will support or go to Kenyan gigs, but we’ve started seeing a difference. All we have to do is just to give it time,” he says. Dancehall artiste and former Sauti Sol choreographer Chiluba Arthur says Internet has added to the woes facing Kenya’s music industry, as consumers  ‘feed’ on international stuff without a limit. “Honestly, Kenyans can’t yet fill up stadiums with an all-Kenyan line-up. Previously, we had two concerts that were full of Kenyan artistes, but they failed to meet expectations. Give it a year or two and it might happen. Kenyans just need to stop idling and comparing Kenyan artistes with Nigerians and Tanzanians. Everything happens at its own pace. Kenyan artistes are really trying, but all we need is support from our own,” he says.