Mercy Salisi @PeopleDailyKe The war on corruption at City Hall intensified yesterday after Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) officers stormed the office of the County Secretary. EACC detectives have been searching for critical documents they believe could help them unravel corruption allegations at the county. Attempts by the County’s head of Security and Compliance Tito Kilonzi to stop the officers from forcibly arresting the acting County Secretary  Pauline Kahiga and searching her office failed to bear fruit as the EACC detectives later whisked her away to Integrity Centre. Journalists who had arrived to cover the arrest were kicked out by the  security officers as the struggle between the EACC detectives  and the inspectorate officers continued in the cash office. After an hour long scuffle, Kahiga was finally driven to the EACC offices for grilling.  Sources intimated that the EACC detectives also took key documents from the office. Since Governor Mike Sonko assumed office, the office of the County Secretary has hardly been held substantively, a situation that has also raised eyebrows among Members of County Assembly. Lazy staff warned The County Secretary office is the heartbeat of all operations by the Executive. Kahiga’s arrest comes at a time when Sonko’s government is on the spot after the Auditor General pointed at financial malpractices, abuse of  office and unexplained wealth accumulation. Meanwhile, Sonko has ordered the installation of biometric card readers across all county offices to ensure staff report to work on time. The governor said laziness has crept in the county thus, affecting service delivery.  He said lately, staff have developed a ‘kanjo’ mentality, reporting to work late and leaving early, thus giving minimal service to Nairobi residents. “My administration will recognise, reward and promote staff who deliver on their targets, but has no room for lazy people who just want to use their county offices to conduct their personal businesses,” said Sonko. He spoke at City Hall on Wednesday during the launch of the Huduma Namba registration for county staff.