Irene Githinji @gitshee The teacher shortage challenge is likely to worsen with the ongoing implementation of the Competence-Based Curriculum which will require more teachers — at least three — to manage grades One to Three. This comes against the backdrop of a strategic plan by the Teachers Service Commission (TSC) to align itself with the government’s education sector goals among them the new curriculum and 100 per cent transition from primary to secondary school, which require more resources, especially teachers. And yesterday, while launching its 2019-2023 presided over by Education Cabinet secretary Prof George Magoha, the TSC said it will require Sh73.6 billion to hire teachers in the next five years to address the current shortfall of an estimated 96,000 for both primary and secondary schools. Trained teachers Data from the TSC indicates that 216,517 teachers are in primary schools and 100,493 in secondary schools, totalling 317,010 teachers in service.  The number of unemployed trained teachers currently stands at 309,000. This comes against the backdrop of what has been termed as annual oversupply of teachers churned from Teachers Training Colleges (TTC), who although registered, remain unemployed—at least 13,000 and 15,000 graduate from Teacher Training Colleges and universities respectively, totalling about 28,000 annually. Out of the 28,000 new graduates, the annual absorption rate stands at about 8,000, which means the number of unemployed will keep rising if the TSC is not adequately funded. The situation notwithstanding, a huge chunk of 33 per cent allocation of the national budget that goes to the education sector is taken by TSC. In its Strategic Plan, TSC indicates it requires Sh73.7 billion for the next five years to recruit additional teachers, as part of the ongoing efforts to deal with the growing need for more tutors. Of the amount Sh16.4 billion will go towards recruiting teachers each year, over the next four years and Sh8.1 billion in the fifth year. Funds  allocated Additionally, Sh2.8 billion over and above the existing allocations under the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) will be required on both recurrent and development provisions in the next five years. This translates to a projected resource gap of Sh76.5 billion for the successful implementation of the 2019/23 Strategic Plan. The overall budget required for delivery of planned targets is estimated at Sh114.5 billion, which includes the cost of recruiting 95,000 additional teachers and 20,000 interns per annum in the next five years. Although the bulk of this funding is expected from the National government, TSC said  it will continue engaging various development partners in resource mobilisation and budget support. By end of June 2018, the commission had about 320,000 staff deployed to 30,892 public educational institutions in the country. Also within the same period, the commission estimated a teacher shortage of 96,345 with 38,054 at primary and 58,291 at post-primary school level. TSC attributes the shortage to rapid growth in school enrolment and various initiatives in the education sector that have necessitated the establishment of new and expansion of existing schools. By 2023, the teacher shortage is projected at 61,671 for secondary and 34,941 for primary schools. Magoha urged education stakeholders to accept and adopt alternative models of teaching and training towards addressing teacher shortage. Saying the government fully appreciates teacher shortage  especially at the secondary school level, the CS said the situation requires a significant investment to alleviate. He challenged TSC to wake up to the reality that there will not be short fixes to some of the long- standing issues that have slowed down its activities. Magoha urged the commission to continue to explore various ways, including a reassessment of the teaching norms, as part of the efforts to ease teaching staff shortage that currently stands at about 96,000. “Even as we support the proposal to recruit more teachers, stakeholders in the sector must accept and adopt alternative models of teaching and learning,” he said. “There is no place where a strategic plan is as important as at TSC. The commission is the largest public service employer in our country. With 320,000 staff, the TSC cannot afford to operate in an environment that is not well structured and planned,” the CS added. Rising enrolment He said the government is doing all it can to ensure there is an adequate number of teachers to handle the rising enrolment in secondary schools. TSC projections indicate either a reducing or a constant teacher demand for the secondary and primary schools sub-sectors, respectively, with full implementation of CBC is, however, expected to significantly impact on teacher demand. “At the primary school level, the declining demand is attributable to continuous teacher recruitment focusing on this sub-sector over the years. At the secondary school level, the constant projected shortage between 2019 and 2023 is premised on the assumption that the government will sustain provision of 12, 626 teachers per year at this level,” TSC indicates. Despite several interventions to achieve teacher balance and rationalisation, TSC states in the strategic plan there are still disparities in distribution and utilisation of teachers across the country. The commission  attributes the imbalance to several factors including insecurity in certain regions, preferences by teachers for urban areas, unwillingness to be separated from their families, medical issues and establishment of unviable schools. As a measure to cope with teacher shortages, TSC said various boards of management have engaged approximately 80,000 teachers in public schools some of whom may not be qualified. The TSC said  this has compromised standards of education and learner achievement and also undermined  government’s commitment to free/affordable basic education. The 2019-2023 Strategic Plan is thus expected to provide for strategies that will optimally utilise the available teaching resource.