Record Kenyan champions Gor Mahia could wrap their 18th league title, their third in a row if they beat 12th-placed Nzoia Sugar in a midweek SportPesa Premier League encounter slated for Mumias Complex this afternoon. They will, however, cross their fingers as they await Football Kenya Federation (FKF) verdict on protests by Sofapaka over the fielding of David Majak whom they claim is ineligible. If Tusker is found guilty, Sofapaka will be awarded maximum points from their 2-2 match played on May 5, 2019 and that will mean that K’Ogalo will have to wait longer to pop the champagne. K’Ogalo lead the standings on 66 points, 10 more than second-placed Sofapaka. Victory today will hoist them to unassailable 69 points, leaving their pursuers short with 12 available points from four remaining league matches. But if Sofapaka are awarded the Tusker points, they will still  have a mathematical chance of winning the league. Show commitment The team has pitched camp in Kisumu since trouncing Sofapaka over the weekend and hope to wrap the title with four fixtures left. Coach Hassan Oktay who took over the squad in December, has managed to pick points from local opponents while juggling continental assignments and other  tournaments as well. “It has not been easy because the season was very short and my players did not prepare well at the beginning. We are still working hard because it is not over. We must show commitment in every game we play and get the most points we can. We want to play every game well and entertain the fans who pay to watch,” Oktay told People Sports. Nzoia are fighting to preserve their top-flight stay after a successive exodus of their top stars left them struggling this season. With every team still having a mathematical chance of surviving this season, Nzoia need to add on to their 33 points tally to boost their chances of survival, making today’s match a must win for them. They have, however, lost all their five meetings with Gor Mahia, soaking in eleven goals and only scoring twice. In Machakos, promoted KCB hope to stun twelve times champions AFC Leopards and complete a double over them this season. The bankers were 1-0 winners in the first leg but Ingwe have made massive improvements in the last two months, making today’s clash a must watch. Revitalised team Coach Andre Casa Mbungo’s revitalised team need only to work on the last 10 minutes of their matches as they have continuously dropped points in the dying minutes of games. “There is not much to change in the way we play. From the start we play so well and even score but our problem only comes at the final moments when we concede easy goals. We’ll keep working on our concentration levels,” he said.