Irene Githinji @gitshee In what could be just what the doctor ordered, Education Cabinet secretary Prof George Magoha has given the Commission for University Education (CUE) a three-month ultimatum to audit quality of degree programmes in the country. And to restore sanity in the higher learning institutions—many of which have been turned into degree kiosks to satisfy the appetite for papers—the CS also told the universities to focus and cut out niche for themselves. Magoha advised universities to put their houses in order before the government moves in to fix them, saying it is time for “tough and painful” decisions. “It is better to experience pain and gain later than stay with a moribund system,” he said.  The CS made the remarks yesterday when he presided over the opening of Kenya Higher Education analytical work meeting at a Nairobi hotel, where he slammed vice chancellors who skipped the forum on critical policy issues. At the same time, Magoha upheld a freeze on the establishment of new universities and satellite campuses, saying time has come to have a candid conversation about the status of universities in the country. Public concern He ordered that “brakes be applied” on the mushrooming of the institutions of higher learning. The directive by the CS, an academic and former University of Nairobi (UoN) Vice Chancellor, resonates with growing public concern on the quality and relevance of some degrees programmes to the national and global development agenda. Magoha directed CUE to prepare a report and present  it to him on the current status of  programmes offered in universities,  academic and support staff qualifications as well as students to lecturer  ratio. It will also audit facilities and equipment in universities. “I have been in the ministry for about a month and there have been so many requests for new universities, some from people I have respected all along. Did the definition of universities change?” the CS posed. “Why should we have six universities in an area of 30 or 40 square kilometres teaching exactly the same thing? It means you have to provide four different faculties instead of synergising them.” He also told universities to be more innovative and seek alternative revenue sources, saying the government can no longer bear the burden. Relevant research The CS said rationalising existing universities will be key to providing the necessary and quality learning support for students, with relevant research to make them globally competitive. “We have to be bold in deciding on the number of institutions we need especially in view of quality and relevance. It is true we have worked hard to provide increased access to university education but that has at times come at the expense of quality,”said Magoha. He stressed the need for specialisation and rationalisation of academic programmes to tap into the full potential of the existing universities and campuses. The CS said there has been exponential growth in the number of universities in the last 10 years, from 18 fully fledged universities in 2009 to 49 this year.