Where did it all start? Kent: Our love story began in March 2016. I met her at an event at White Sands, Mombasa. We hardly knew each other, so we had nothing much to talk about. I got her number from a friend the same day and I started texting her, but she would reply to my texts three days later… or even refuse to reply. She hardly picked my calls either, but eventually, she agreed to go for a date with me. Everlyn: Our first date was at Kempinski. I was very excited (albeit nervous) meeting him and sharing a meal. We shared a lot about ourselves, though I was a bit reserved on details about myself. We met several times after that and realised we had a lot in common. That’s how a relationship ensued. How long did you date? We dated for three years and tied the knot the fourth year. What was special about your proposal? Kent: I proposed to her on her birthday on December 17, 2018. I was sure she was the woman I would share the rest of my life with. She was my best friend, and we were set for a life together. Everlyn: A bouquet of flowers and a box of chocolates were delivered to my office. I was so excited. I later thanked him and he invited me for dinner in the evening after work. We went to a Chinese restaurant in Upper Hill. Our dessert was a cake and as I dug in, I found the ring. He went down on one knee and asked me to marry him. There was no drama… I just said ‘Yes’. What were some of the highlights on your big day? Kent: The bride was picked in the morning by a limo that we also rode in after exchanging vows, which was a surprise for her. The dancing, singing and gifts at the reception was memorable. Again, I was worried the parents, who were travelling from Meru and Machakos, would be late, but they arrived on time. Everlyn: Every girl has her dream wedding and I achieved mine. My family stayed by my side to ensure all went well. My bridal team was also cooperative, so we didn’t have drama with the tailor. I chose my best friends and my sisters, in whom I had a lot of trust not to let me down. Our biggest challenge, however, was getting a church to hold the service. Kent is Catholic and I’m not, so as we searched for a church, I also had to learn a few things about his faith. How did you choose your wedding suppliers? We both agreed on what we wanted and also sought some assistance from friends. I particularly loved how our MC coordinated the whole event and ensured guests were entertained, and that we were right on time. I think it’s better to have professional MCs coordinate a wedding than relatives or friends. Advice to couples planning a wedding? As you plan your wedding, make sure you are within your budget first. Don’t place expectations on friends. Let what they contribute be a bonus. BRIDE: EVERLYN MUENI GROOM: KENT MUCHUI DATE: MARCH 30, 2019 VENUE: KISE, KASARANI PHOTOGRAPHY: PICASSO CAPTIONS MC: MC FORTUNE