Johannesburg, Tuesday @PeopleSports11 Athletics may have to consider replacing male and female competitions with “A and B” classifications if the world governing body lose their landmark case against Caster Semenya this week. The Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) is due to announce on Wednesday if the South African middle-distance star has defeated world athletics chiefs’ attempts to restrict testosterone levels in women runners. If Semenya (pictured) wins, it could lead to the most radical change in the history of international sport, with the IAAF considering the introduction of new categories based on factors such as testosterone levels. One senior athletics insider suggested the sport may have to contemplate replacing male and female categories with “A and B” classifications that take into account transgender athletes as well as people with differences of sexual development (DSD) such as Semenya. Victory for the IAAF would render such a revolutionary, and for many unpalatable, change unnecessary. To continue competing as a woman in any running event between the 400m and the mile, female athletes such as Semenya would have to take testosterone suppressants like the contraceptive pill to stay under the permitted level. Central to the IAAF’s case is the blood data of DSD athletes when they have competed with and without testosterone suppressants. In 2015 the IAAF were forced to abandon their ruling on hyperandrogenism because CAS concluded there was a lack of evidence to prove testosterone increased female athletic performance and was therefore unjustifiably discriminatory. Suppressants But on this occasion the IAAF have used data from the athletes who competed while taking suppressants when the rule was in place, in a bid to prove levels of testosterone almost on a par with men do provide a significant advantage over women with normal female levels of the hormone. If, however, CAS reject the IAAF’s argument and side with South Africa’s double Olympic champion, the IAAF may consider changes that would recognise the shift in attitude towards gender in society. It could, however, mean that a transgender athlete identifying as a woman or a DSD runner would find themselves in the same category as David Rudisha if they wanted to win an Olympic medal in the 800m, and would almost certainly be met by further legal challenges. Athletics has taken the lead on this issue but it could be that other sports look to define athletes in categories other than men and women if Semenya and legal advisers she labelled the “A Team” on social media on Sunday prove victorious. –DAILYMAIL