Hillary Mageka @hillarymageka The Council of Governors (CoG) has criticised the budgetary allocation to  President Uhuru Kenyatta’s legacy programmes under the Big Four agenda. In particular, the CoG wants the State to shed light on how the Universal Health Coverage (UHC), which is a component of health, a devolved function, will be rolled out  in the 47 counties. UHC plan is currently being piloted in Kisumu, Isiolo, Nyeri and Machakos counties. Following the UHC pilot project in the four counties, the CoG proposes that funding for other 43 counties are allocated by the National Treasury through the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) budget process directly to all counties. Revenue bill “The division of revenue bill, 2019 highlights that the funds allocated to Level 5 hospitals are only transitional and may be re-allocated to fund universal health coverage once it’s scaled up to all 47 counties. It is, however, not clear what the UHC policy referred in the bill is,” CoG said in a submission signed by its chairperson Wycliffe Oparanya to Senate Finance and Budget committee. “The Senate should help locate this policy and how the allocation towards Level 5 hospitals will be transformed to UHC,” Oparanya further states. Among the issues governors want addressed is UHC implementation, training of health workers, emphasis on curative and care rather than preventative care. Others include increase of community health workers and National Hospital Insurance Fund coverage of whole medical bill expenses. For instance, the council wants the Ministry of Health to provide clarification on whether the UHC plan is to upgrade the existing level 5 hospitals in counties on infrastructure, or the building of new health facilities. “If the plan is to upgrade the already existing facilities allocation should, therefore, be channelled to County governments and inclusion made to all the counties with level 5 hospitals,” Oparanya insists. Conditional grants Additionally, only 11 Level 5 hospitals have been receiving the Conditional Grants out of the available. In the Division of Revenue bill, 2019, the National Treasury has proposed an additional allocation  for Level 5 hospitals a total of Sh4.3 billion to compensate the facilities for the costs incurred in rendering services to neighbouring counties.