Adalla Allan Any modifications? Plenty. I had modified its bumper, the rims, the car lighting, it is fitted with a smoke machine, full Rockford sound system supported by an ex-UK Alpine equaliser. Why did you go for this car? I wanted a car that would, with a few modifications, stand out from the rest. Though many people consider it outdated, this model and its look-alike Toyota Ceres were actually designed by Toyota as competitors for the Subaru rally-bred cars. I was also impressed by its performance on the road as it gives me the best when I command it. What was your budget for this car? Well, I spent Sh600,000 to buy this car from a dealer. I had to do some body works and the modifications, including the painting, graffiti and all that set me back Sh400,000. I love a thumping stereo and this made me go for the best with the whole in-car-entertainment system setting me back another Sh400,000. The whole boot is monopolised by the sound and equalizers. In total, I spent at least Sh1.4 million. The highest speed you have recorded with the ride? My highest speed was when I was once going to Naivasha one Saturday morning. I used the southern bypass, with all the car windows raised and the road was very clear. I was so surprised when I saw the speedometer nudge 180km/h, its highest speed. I had to slow down. Any drawbacks? The biggest challenge is getting the spares for the car. It is currently not manufactured and is rare to find in Kenya, so getting its spares is very hard. I am forced to import the spares from Uganda, but crossing back with them is another headache. We also have a social media group where we post the spares we want then you hopefully get connected to someone with it. But trust issues are a problem with this system. Did you know? Toyota Celica was the third Toyota sports car coming in 1970 after the Toyota sport 800 which arrived in 1965 powered,  by an 0.8-litre engine and the rare Toyota 2000GT, the only Toyota that featured in the James Bond blockbuster. Owner: Kennedy Ngugi Toyota Celica GT year 1999, 3-door liftback. Transmission: 5-speed manual. Engine: 1.8 litre 4-cylinder 