There is a thin line between Rastafarianism and reggae music. To many people, dreadlocks are the common denominator. But as Manuel Ntoyai writes, there is a stark difference between the two Manuel Ntoyai @manuel_ntoyai Rastafarianism is a religious movement that took root in Jamaica following the coronation of Haile Sellasie 1 as the Emperor of Ethiopia in 1930. Stemming from the belief that he came from the royal lineage of the biblical King Solomon, who is said to have had an affair with Queen Makeda of Sheba and had a son named Menelik 1. All this history is documented in the book of Kebra Nagast or The Glory of Kings. While avoiding being like any other religion, Rastafarianism chose to be a homogenous movement with a number of distinct groups making up the mansions or houses. There are three main sub-movements: The Nyabingi Order, The Bobo Ashanti and The 12 Tribes of Israel. “When Rastafarianism begun, apart from being a religious tool, it was also fashioned to be a political tool that inspired leaders such as Marcus Garvey, who spread messages of black people empowerment and their repatriation to Africa,” says Kenyan Rastafarian Willie Wailer, who has been practising Rasta beliefs for more than 30 years. THE SECTS Nyabingi is the oldest of the mansions and derive their name from Queen Nyabingi of Uganda who was famous for her rebellion against colonialists. They are known for their strictness and chants while using drums during groundations (holy celebrations). The 12 Tribes of Israel is a sect founded by Vernon Carrington, who regarded himself as the reincarnation of Gad — one of the 12 sons of Jacob. It’s liberal way of life and closeness to Christianity, and unlike the other groups, they believe Jesus is the Messiah and hold Haile Sellasie in high regards. One of the greatest musicians in history, Bob Marley, was a member of this sect of Rastafarians. Bobo Ashanti is known for their strict way of life, covering their heads with turbans and putting on long robes. Unlike the other two who can drink wine and eat meat, this group is strictly vegetarian and has added extra restrictions to their diet including mangoes and sugarcane. “There is a lot of misconception and misunderstanding when it comes to Rastafarianism in Africa, and in particular Kenya. While we practice ‘ital’ living where one is supposed to eat fresh and natural foods, early Rastas could not afford and did not eat meat, but here the concepts changed because we are not spiritually nor culturally bound. Africa is the motherland and not Jamaica, so it is wrong to look for inspiration from an Island instead of here at home,” says Willie. According to him, Rastafarians in Africa do not share same practices nor is it a must for them to do so. He says practices such as not eating meat and keeping dreadlocks should not define Rastas. “The best thing that happened to Rastafarianism is the growth of reggae music and with the likes of Bob Marley and Jimmy Cliff being seen as one of the main ambassadors. They used their music to spread the message of peace, love and unity, which many be found appealing,” he adds. REGGAE CONNECTION With the rise of reggae as a tool of spreading Rastafarian beliefs, it slowly got into Kenya and with it came job opportunities for deejays, one of them being the legendary DJ Johhny Cool. “Following the death of Bob Marley in 1982, there was a commemoration of his death at the then French Cultural Centre, now Alliance Francaise. One of the people who took part in organising it was the late Bongoman (a devoted Rasta from Burundi) and from there, a number of clubs started playing reggae including the famous Starlight,” he told Spice. From there, club DJs started playing music on themed days in different clubs, with the likes of Club Hollywood, Kongoni and Brilliant giving rise to DJ groups. “Jahkey Marley and I became good friends and as DJs at Jambo Sounds, we played in different clubs in Nairobi and Mombasa in the early 90s. After that I left to start my own outfit. Other reggae outfits started growing and event organisers started inviting Jamaican artistes to perform in Kenya,” adds Johnny. But the journey for reggae artistes in the country has been bumpy with picture being one of a miserable and suffering lot. According to reggae artiste Ras Mtapa, reggae artistes should be a mirror to the society, representing the most ideal characters and being at the best of behaviour. “As a reggae artiste, apart from spreading the conscious message to the young people, I feel there is more I should do to clean up the image of reggae music in the country. There are a lot of positives when it comes to reggae and I believe it will grow to the biggest levels in the world,” he says. He adds: “We have seen instances where reggae heads are tarnishing the Rasta lifestyle and reggae music, increasing the stereotypes. There is a time when many people, especially from uptown, dreaded reggae concerts. Revellers would be robbed and even injured, but over the years, things have changed for the better. People have learnt to differentiate between Rastafarian and reggae. Remember, you don’t have to have dreadlocks to be Rasta; this is not a dreadlocks thing, but a divine conception of the heart.” John Omollo (famous for organising Reggae in the Sun concert) feels there is need for more awareness on the power and beauty of reggae. “The main purpose of Reggae In The Sun is to promote all that is positive about reggae and the culture behind it. That’s why our slogan is ‘Positive Vibes Only’,” he says. DEBUNKING STEREOTYPES “I got attracted to the Rasta way of life after listening to reggae music. In it, I found messages of solace, redemption and soul uplifting. I got interested in it more and more and as years went by, I got to understand the concept of livity (the Rastafarian concept of righteous and everliving living),” says Jacob Gona aka Makushabu, a Milan-based Kenyan artiste. Born and bred in the Kenyan Coast, Makushabu came to Malindi with hopes of fending for his family, as his father was a bhang peddler. “As a 10-years old, I used to help him peddle the drug to locals because police would not suspect me. Poverty levels in Kilifi county were high and my family was not an exemption and I dropped out of school. I would listen to reggae music and there I found my salvation. “I would hymn the songs, whose lyrics I came to learn and their meaning and they connected with my soul. From then, I started following the teachings of Marcus Garvey and His Majesty Haile Selassie,” says Makushabu. He had heard about Rastafarians, whom besides their long dreadlocks were also known for smoking bhang or weed. “I think there is still a lot of misconception about weed. I advocate for its use for recreation and medical purposes. We have a lot of Kenyans suffering from diseases and condition that weed has been proved to help. Through weed, actress, comedian, author and TV personality Whoopi Goldberg is helping girls overcome cramp pains. In most Western countries, weed use is not a big issue, but in Africa, we are still bound to colonial rules. For me, weed represents freedom,” he says.  His Watalii Foundation uses weed as it’s logo.