Francis Muli When you agree to be a guarantor, you assume responsibility for the debt if the principal borrower defaults on the loan. Currently, the law does not protect guarantors’ properties from creditors. The current law, until recently, was not clear whose property should be realised first incase of a principal borrower defaults. Last week, the National Assembly’s Justice and Legal Affairs Committee approved a bill seeking to amend the Law of Contract Act in order to provide legal protection to guarantors. The new bill, however, requires that a financial lender should first realise the security of the principal borrower and not that of the guarantor, even if the guarantor’s security is commercially viable. This may be the solution for financial institutions, loanees and guarantors in resolving conflict of defaulted . However, the bill is yet to be assented into law. Even if it is assented into law today, it will not protect you completely from the agony of guaranteeing loanees who are likely to default. It is important to avoid guaranteeing loans at all costs. In most cases, people who take guarantor loans do not have assets to cover their loans. A recent report by Metropol Corporation, a credit reference bureau (CRB), shows that there are more than 380,000 Kenyans that have so far defaulted on loans taken from mobile money lenders. What would make you think that the person you are guaranteeing will not be part of the statistic? Sector data for first nine months of 2018 showed that non-performing loans rose to Sh326 billion from Sh260 billion in 2017, driven by heavy defaults from small businesses and the taxi sector. This means that guarantors of these loans could bear the consequences of the defaulted loans, including being blacklisted with CRBs. Currently, Kenya has up to 500,000 people blacklisted by CRBs, representing a 300 per cent increase from 2015 where the number of blacklisted borrowers stood at 150,000. If you have to guarantee the loan, make sure you enter into agreement with the loanee. Map out steps to be taken incase they default. If possible, get yourself some security like title deeds, vehicle logbooks belonging to the borrower. Listen to their plan. How do they intend to spend the money and how they plan to repay? Get the projections and analyse its viability.