Milliam Murigi @millymur1 Kenya’s logistics market continues to grow in size, with Nairobi’s warehousing supply recording 15 per cent  growth last year. Demand for large, centralised warehouses is on the rise as the country’s retail sector experiences rapid transformation with international retailers such as Shoprite and Carrefour entering the Kenyan market. The entry of online shops is also fuelling demand for godowns. This is according to Broll Property Intel’s latest report dubbed Kenya Logistics Snapshot Report. The report estimates Nairobi’s supply of warehouses as at Quarter Four 2018 1.2 million square metres, registering a 15 per cent growth from close to 1.1 million square metres as at Quarter Four  2017. Grade B warehouses accounted for the highest market share of approximately 920,000 square metre (sqm), followed by grade C at 241,000sqm and grade A warehouses at 61,000sqm. Occupancy levels registered a year-on-year increase of four per cent in the same period. “This growth was driven by increased container throughput coupled with an improved business environment and infrastructure,” says Broll. Embakasi area The highest interest growth, from 67 per cent in 2017 to 77 per cent in 2018, was noted for A-grade warehouse units, as operators appreciate higher specifications, which eventually translates to lower operational costs.  According to Broll Kenya’s Head of Research and Valuations Vivian Ombwayo, continued growth in Kenya’s logistics sector is envisioned for the foreseeable future. Expansion of grade A warehousing is also anticipated to grow as the confidence of regional and international operators’ increases due to improved business conditions such as tax rebates offered in Special Economic Zones (SEZ) and increased port throughput expected from the completion of the Nairobi-Naivasha SGR track by end of 2019. “With improved infrastructure, most operators are now considering relocating to less congested areas away from Nairobi City, such as Kiambu and Machakos counties where there is availability of relatively cheap land,” Ombwayo said. Embakasi area accounts for 43 per cent of the total supply, followed by Athi River and Syokimau at 15 per cent and 14 per cent, respectively. There was an increased supply of grade A warehouses mainly in  peripheral areas. Africa Logistics Properties Holding (ALP) developer and manager of modern grade A warehousing and Improvon Group are some of the firms that have  launched different warehousing projects in Nairobi and Kiambu counties to try and fill the deficit of Grade A warehouses. According to the International Finance Corporation  (IFC), the financier of ALP Projects) Regional Head of Manufacturing, Agribusiness and Services in sub-Saharan Africa, Mary-Jean Moyo introduction of modern warehousing in Kenya will support growth, employment and trade across a range of industries. “Quality warehousing improves operational efficiencies by reducing waste from poor storage, increasing the speed of product delivery and improving product security. With access to quality logistics, global companies will find it easier to ramp up businesses in Africa,” she said. A report by Knight Frank Africa Horizons says that surprisingly, the retailers are lacking storage facilities, as they have to make use of smaller space for their goods. This continued growth is expected to generate demand for increasingly sophisticated logistics properties, particularly around Nairobi. Transport and storage “Many retailers import goods, then make use of small storage facilities at their stores, but as retailers gain critical mass within Kenya, they are increasingly requiring large, centralised warehouses. This sector is a key source of warehousing demand, albeit food and beverage firms generally build their own facilities, while retailers prefer to lease warehouses,” says  Knight Frank. However, the stock of lower specification warehouses —godowns—largely supplied in the city’s industrial area, showed a decline. This points to the changing face of the Nairobi market, which is now increasingly able to satisfy the demand for quality stock. Kenya’s logistics sector is driven by factories, transport and storage as well as wholesale and retail,  but the establishment of Special Economic Zones (SEZ) has also sparked growth. Parks that have been designated as SEZs include Tatu City and Africa Economic Zones Limited in Eldoret county. Others in the process of being licensed are Northlands City to the north of Nairobi, Dongo Kundu in Mombasa, Naivasha Industrial Park, Konza City and Lamu Port-South Transport (Lappset). Despite the growth logistics, the rental market is likely to remain buoyant as an increased number of operators are seen to prefer leasing premises as opposed to purchasing, save for some larger logistics operators. Rental rates are predicted to remain relatively unchanged in 2019 as the industry supply is still anticipated to match demand.