Group eyes more earnings from subsidiaries as  interest rates cap law constraints sector income Zachary Ochuodho @zachuodho Returns from subsidiaries contributed to Equity Group Holdings’ after-tax profit of Sh6.2 billion for the first quarter of 2019. The group, in addition to the five per cent jump in earnings from Sh5.9 billion in the previous year, also reported a six per cent rise in profit before tax of Sh8.8 billion for the period,  up from Sh8.3 billion during the period ended March 31, 2018. According to the results, the group’s interest income grew by seven per cent. Non-funded income mix also registered a seven per cent growth. The non-funded income mix contribution to total income bounced back to 41 per cent up from 38 per cent recorded the previous year. Net interest income increased to Sh10.4 billion from Sh9.8 billion during the period under review while non-funded income was up seven per cent to Sh7.2 billion. Equity Group Holdings Ltd managing director and chief executive officer, Dr James Mwangi, said the seven per cent growth in interest income was on the strength of 13 per cent growth in the loan book paying off the reduction in lending rate from 14 per cent to 13 per cent. He said non-funded income growth reflected high transactional activities and uptake of various fees and commission services, including merchant banking commission, which grew by 15 per cent. Trading income Mwangi, who was speaking during an investor briefing in Nairobi yesterday, said the forex trading income grew by 22 per cent supported by increased dollar flow from diaspora remittances. Remittances  grew by 27 per cent to reach Sh30.9 billion while trading income grew by 92 per cent to Sh450 million. He said the unrealised capital gains on government securities grew by 110 per cent to Sh1.42 billion up from Sh680 million due to declining yields. Mwangi said all the six subsidiaries returned profits, except South Sudan, which contributed nothing to the profitability kitty. The group also operates in Tanzania, Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda and DRC.