Lynette Matheka @PeopleSport11 Former Kenya Basketball Federation (KBF) women’s premier league champions Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) got their title hunt off to a winning start as they dispatched University of Nairobi (UoN) Dynamites 73-31 on Saturday. With 32 points from the last quarter of the match handed the Anthony Ojukwu coached side the big win against the varsity side after a slow start in the match. KPA took the lead in a low scoring first half quarters of 12-7 and 15-11. The dockers had a relatively poor third quarter ending 14-6 in their favour before they erupted to a 32-7 final quarter score for the win. “We are grateful for the win in our first match although the team chemistry is wanting. The first three quarters were more of a trial on the best combination for us but we got it right in the final 10 minutes. We still have work to do to have the team performance at the optimum but we’ll take it one match at a time,” said coach Ojukwu. Meanwhile, in a scene only witnessed in high school basketball, Storms lost 63-13 to Equity Bank Hawks a match the losers went without a single score in the second half of the match.   Hawks raced to their sixth win of the season in quarters of 17-9, 12-4, 19-0, 15-0 for the final score while subjecting Storms to their third loss of the season. Storms’ misery was not yet over as they suffered their fourth loss of the season in the hands of Kenyatta University Oryx in a Sunday match. The Abel Nson coached side started on a high, winning the first half 17-13. However, Oryx turned the tables scoring 11 points in the third quarter against Storms’ 7 to level the score going in to the final quarter. Oryx won the final period 8-7 for victory. In another match, Strathmore University picked their fourth win of the season in 32-25 victory against Zetech University.  In the men’s league, Ulinzi Warriors played for two weekend wins in a 65-44 outcome against Eldonets before thrashing Kisumu Lakeside 64-39 to clear their first leg fixtures on a high. “So far I am impressed with the team.  We have lost one match but we are looking to do better in the second leg. Two areas need working on, box-outs and conceding on second shots, we will improve on that in the second leg, “said Warriors head coach William Balozi. On their part, Thunder raced to a 57-42 win against Lakeside for second place with a match in hand.