Murimi Mutiga @murimimutiga Two directors of a transport company, who are accused of receiving Sh109 million compensation for compulsory acquisition of their land to pave way for construction of a road in Mombasa, have been ordered to present themselves before court on Monday. Shakeel Ahmed Khan and Nazir Matabkhan lost an application to stop the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) from prosecuting them. They are facing charges of conspiring to commit a fraud through the payment for purported compulsory acquisition of the land. High Court judge Mugure Thande further allowed EACC to execute a warrant of arrest against the father and son, owners of Tornado Carriers Limited that was paid the said money. Khan and Matabkhan had sought to stop EACC, Director of Public Prosecution (DPP),  Director of Criminal Investigations (DCI) and the Attorney General, who are the respondents, from arresting, detaining, harassing and intimidating them in relation to the compensation of the land located at Portreitz. Their application came after senior National Land Commission (NLC) officials, including former chairman Mohamud Swazuri, former commissioner Emma Njogu, Valuation and Taxation deputy director Joash Oindo and Finance director Francis Mugo, were charged over the irregular payout. Last week, the duo claimed NLC officials forged a letter to show they had authorized transfer of Sh54 million to CW Chege & Co Advocates while Tornado Ltd received Sh55 million. The alleged Sh109 million was compensation for land required by KeNHA to construct the Southern Bypass and Kipevu New Highway Container Terminal link road. An evaluation done in 2015 showed that  the land was worth Sh34.5 million but Tornado firm rejected the offer, hence another exercise that valued the land at Sh109,769,363. The DPP claims the applicants failed to disclose having received payments and were yet to surrender title deeds for the compensated land to NLC or KeNHA. EACC lawyer Francis Makori informed the court that the applicants in the matter were accused persons in a criminal case pending before a Nairobi court and were  to take plea on April 18 but failed to show up at EACC offices as requested.