Which is your latest gadget? An i7 Retina MacBook Pro. I love it because it is the most powerful MacBook one can get. Do you prefer DJ software or the whole equipment set? My preference is the whole equipment set. Have you ever made a mix that fans didn’t like? Never and I wouldn’t pray for such a thing to happen. The gadget you wouldn’t trade for anything? My two terabyte hard drive. This is because it enables my computer to boot much faster, apps launch faster, and files copy more quickly. Which is that childhood gadget that you still treasure? That must be my brick game, back in the day that was gold! It was a must have. Your worst gadget ever and why? A pair of Numark NDX 900 decks I bought a while back because they have very poor handling! In a nutshell, they’re a disgrace to the entire deejaying industry. As a DJ, which among your gadgets do you value the most? My Retina MacBook, it’s my most expensive possession. It set me back a cool Sh169,900. Which gadget do you use the most and why? My hard drive since it contains all my music. Basically, it is my portable office. Which app do you use most on your phone and why? WhatsApp. It is easy to communicate with ease and facilitates sending a wide array of things such as songs, links, images, etc. What would you be if you were a gadget? I’d be an iPhone since it’s very classy; I mean who wouldn’t want an Apple product? The gadget you can’t live without and why. My phone, it’s the easiest avenue to reach me. If you were to upgrade one of your most valued gadgets, which would it be and why? My DJ mixer to a set of new mixers, the Mixars Duo MK2. Simply because they have perfect handling, a great look, and excellent output. While shopping for gadgets, do you look for brands or output? I definitely look for output and in some cases, I look at the brand such as when buying a phone. The gadget you always wish you had? A Pioneer DDJ SP1 Midi Controller. What equipment would you recommend for someone starting out in this industry and working with a tight budget? For a DJ on a budget, he/she can get a pair of Pioneer CDJ 800s which go for  Sh80,000 and a Rane Ttm 57sl DJ mixer which goes for Sh70,000 and a 4gb/500hdd Core 2 Duo MacBook at cost of  Sh40,000 and they will be good to go.