Last season’s Kenya Basketball Federation (KBF) women premier league losing semi-finalists Storms aim to rise from the ashes as they honour two fixtures this weekend at the Nyayo Indoor Arena. The Abel Nson coached side has had a bad start to the season, winning just two of their six matches played so far. The last weekend played out just how low the team has gone as they were held to a scoreless second half in a match against holders Equity Bank Hawks in a 63-13 outcome. As if that was not enough, the side lost their sixth match of the season in the hands of Kenyatta University Oryx in a Sunday match. They let go of a first half 17-13 lead to lose by half a basket in a 32-31 score line. Difficult start “It has been a difficult start for us but we are hoping to have a better weekend as the team has now had a bit of time to train as a unit. We were not lucky to make our signings or train in the off season and have been forced to make additions as the season unfolds thus the current performance,” said the tactician. Storms lost three of their key players after the conclusion of the last season. Mercy Wanyama landed a professional contract with a Spanish basketball league side while Becky Nkatha and Melissa Akinyi shifted camps to local rivals Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) and Hawks respectively. “Losing such key players would destabilise even the best of teams. However, I have made crucial additions to the side, adding eight new players. That gives us a depth we did not even have in the last season and the only thing remaining is to have the players gel and play as a unit. I believe we will have a better season after this weekend and into the second leg,” added Nson. Defending champions In other women league matches, Hawks travel to Kakamega where they take on Western Delight. The holders are on a mission to extend their lead and unbeaten run while the latter chase an almost impossible second win against the defending champions. Zetech University play Tangit Sparks while Africa Nazarene University (ANU) face off with in-form Eagle Wings.