Musa Radoli @PeopleDailyKe Top five savings and credit co-operative societies (Saccos) in the country have been named. They are ahead of the rest with accumulated savings and assets worth more than Sh149.9 billion. Ministry of Industrialisation, Trade and Co-operatives, Cooperatives Directorate said these Saccos had accumulated these billions over the years and all the top five are headquartered in Nairobi. Dolphine Aremo, Nairobi County Director of Cooperatives said the top five Saccos are led by the giant Mwalimu Sacco, followed by Harambee, Stima, Kenya Police and Afya Sacco. She said the teachers’ giant Sacco had as at the end of the last financial year accumulated savings and assets worth more than Sh46 billion, while Stima Sacco came in the second position with Sh32 billion. “Kenya Police Sacco’s worth during the period under review clocked Sh28.9 billion, Harambee Sacco Sh26 billion and Afya Sacco Sh17 billion. These are the Saccos in the club of billionaires while others are trailing,” she added. Aremo said Nairobi county alone had more than 3,000 registered co-operative societies whose accumulated savings and assets are estimated to stand at Sh300 billion. The disclosure came during Afya Sacco Annual Delegates Conference (ADC) at the Kenyatta Convention Centre (KICC) where Acting Commissioner for Co-operative Development Didacus Etiang’ was the chief guest. Bad elements More than 360 delegates from 47 counties led by their chairman Vitalis Lukiri attended the Afya Sacco’s 39th Conference since it was established in 1971 in Nairobi. Etiang’ said the ministry has signed a memorandum of understanding with Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to investigate, arrest, prosecute and deal with bad elements who may have infiltrated the movement and are wreaking havoc from within. He warned that a few bad or corrupt elements who may have infiltrated the movement cannot be allowed to put at risk the more than Sh1.8 trillion the societies have accumulated over the years. He said the national government was taking seriously the counties which had failed to remit the dues they had collected from workers to their Saccos which have since accumulated to more than Sh146 million. Addressing the conference, Lukiri said though the economic environment was challenging during the period under review, Afya Sacco’s turnover grew from Sh2.15 billion in 2017 to Sh2.24 billion in 2018, a 4.2 per cent growth. Total assets He said during the same period members’ deposits also increased from Sh12.29 billion to Sh13.09 billion, marking a 6.5 growth, adding that the Sacco’s total assets as at the end of the last financial year were worth Sh17.561 billion from a previous Sh16.146 billion, a growth of 8.8 per cent.