Increased use of M-Pesa and mobile data contributed to Safaricom’s after-tax record profit of Sh63.4 billion,  a 14.7 per cent growth for the year that ended March 30. And Safaricom customers have already borrowed Sh45 billion through   Fuliza, a service launched only six months ago to allow M-Pesa customers   complete their transactions when they have insufficient funds in their account. Due to the good performance, Safaricom board of directors proposed the first and final dividend of Sh1.25 per share totaling Sh50.08 billion – which is 13.6 per cent higher than Sh44.07 billion paid last year to its shareholders. Safaricom board also proposed payment of a special dividend of Sh0.62 per share amounting to Sh24.84 billion. Analysis of the firm’s profitability since 2013 reveals that the profit of the company has been growing at an average of Sh7.3 billion per year. It’s the most profitable company in Africa. According to the financial report, Safaricom’s total revenue increased by 7.1 per cent to Sh250.96 billion as revenue from voice, M-Pesa, mobile data and fixed services grew. Safaricom chief executive officer Bob Collymore said the telco continued to generate positive momentum at a time when the macro issues weighed in on customer choice. “We achieved this by focusing on the customer, investing in the quality of our service, the performance of our network and creating differentiated customer experiences,” Collymore said Friday while unveiling the results. He said the service revenue was up by seven per cent to Sh240.3 billion mainly due to the 19.2 per cent growth of M-Pesa revenue to Sh74.99 billion, as fixed service revenue increased by 22.7 per cent to Sh8.19 billion. Collymore noted, however, that the voice revenue, which makes up the bulk of the revenue, had a flat growth. It grew by 0.3 per cent to Sh95.94 billion. The mobile data revenue grew by 6.4 per cent to Sh38.69 billion. However, SMS revenue dropped 1.3 per cent to Sh17.5 billion. Collymore said the good performance was realised by focusing on the customer, investing in the quality of its service, improvement of its network and creating differentiated customer experiences. “Our actions were guided by our purpose of transforming lives. Our top priority for Financial Year 2019 was focusing on the customer and I am pleased to advise that we have witnessed improved customer sentiment, through brand consideration,” he said. During the period, he said the company’s customers accelerated from 400,000 in the first half of the year to 1.9 million in the second half of the year. He said Safaricom increased the use of data analytics to provide predictive, proactive and personalised offers to its customers, driving down effective prices of its offering. The impact can be clearly seen within mobile data and voice with the average rate per megabyte reducing 42 per cent on a year on year basis and the average rate per minute reducing 10 per cent. “The board remains committed to investing in the business and continuing our strong record of paying progressive dividends each year,” Collymore said. He said in 2020, the firm wants a capital budget of between Sh36 billion and Sh38 billion.