After forgetting my yellow fever card at home, running to port health at JKIA, almost missing my flight and winding up with burning lungs from the mental and physical exertion, I arrive in Seychelles. Landing is quite a visual experience as we fly over a few islands and beautiful turquoise waters, before landing on the runway which is partly in the ocean; it was definitely worth all my morning troubles. On disembarking, the air is hot and humid, immediately reminding me of Mombasa with the temperatures nudging a toasty 29 degrees Celsius. The roads are well paved with green foliage in every conceivable place that the eye can see. Monte Blanc looms over us in its huge, green-boulderish way. I learn that everything here is by design, from the number of visitors allowed into the country to conservation efforts made in the country like banning plastic bags and putting in place policies that will enable Seychelles to ban plastic straws. Seychelles has around 90,000 people, a quarter of whom are expatriates working and living here. Most Seychellois are Creole. They speak Creole, which is a close relative to French, something I learn after I get lost repeatedly trying to walk from my hotel to Victoria town. My rusty French manages to get me back to the hotel safely though, and I am pretty sure I will come back with a French accent after just two days here. The great thing about visiting a foreign country is the chance to immerse yourself in a different culture. Coral Strand Hotel does exactly that with its different offerings of different types of food and different activities every day. They have themed dinners at Amahek restaurant, with Mediterranean and Creole nights among others. Music played is dependent on the type of dinner being presented. On Creole dinner night, as Jean Marc Volcy, a renowned Creole artiste croons softly in the background, I learn that the Creole are big on curries, which they make using fresh seafood, and being an island, is readily available. I try out the octopus curry and it is delicious and shall I say different, having only eaten it fried a few times before. The restaurant is built right next to the beach, so one has unrestricted views of Silhouette and North islands right from the window. In the evenings, when the tide is back, one can hear and see it crashing against the beach right outside the restaurant. The warm turquoise ocean waters are always visible whether one is dining at the restaurant or lounging in the room, luring you to its warm depths. It is no surprise that the Fina open,  a marathon swimming competition, is being held at the Beau Vallon beach, a two minutes walk from Coral Strand. It is also not a surprise to see dolphins dancing in and out of the water almost as if cheering for the multi-national competitors. Oh, by the way, a 14-year-old Kenyan represented us and won in the 5km open water race. We might leave home, but the pride of home never leaves us. You should have seen me cheer her on in my Maasai earrings! Since the warm waters are not just great for elite swimmers but also for amateur tourists, I enjoy swimming in the waters in the late evenings as the sun sets. On one such evening, as I swim, some caucasian guy lands his kayak right next to me. Turns out the kayaks are free for all hotel guests; I have therefore been out here in the kayak every minute I get. Oh, Kenyans, and free things!