Thursday Nite Live with Eddie Grey demanded us to slow down to the soft tones of jazz. And although Js Fresh Bar and Kitchen was a hive, the club’s patrons heeded to the call of the smooth music. Eddie Grey and his backup crew synchronized in what without a doubt were his original compositions. Except for one or two times, they went off tangent when a fan asked him to play a song they could dance to. Which I think was ridiculous; this individual came to Js knowing that it was jazz night. And the person seemed to be familiar with Eddie because they sent him a text which he read out loud when he took a breather. Anyway, whoever it was got a rendition of Diamond Platnumz’s hit, Tetema, and I hope they danced. Eddie, and Lexxie who was on the vocals, commanded the show leading the way. The crowd was still and occasionally swayed gently to the music. But after 10 pm, people seemed a little restless. I’m assuming that for some, alcohol was coursing through their bloodstream and kicking in crackling their attention from the music. Nevertheless, Eddie was having fun on stage and completely drowning in his own tunes. His backup crew was having a good time as well and didn’t seem bothered by anything else. And that is how it should be. While it is important to musically bond with the crowd, artistes should be able to connect with their own music as well while performing. I think Eddie did that. He appealed to the audience and simultaneously lost himself to the glory of his music while at it. As the show swiftly came to a stop, the fidgety crowd immediately swooped up the dance floor to applaud the act of the night. DJ UV was on cue and took over diving right into ‘white folk’ house and a bit of trance music. That was one way to get white people dancing since it’s their kind of music. So they immediately filled the dancefloor while my African brothers and sisters found the music less coherent with their dance moves. And you know Africans are the best dancers out here; it’s just tailored in our DNA. They sat out that session until Kwaito music came on and white people didn’t know what to do with it. Then hip-hop came flying out of the deejay’s playlist and my people stomped the dance floor. In fact, they went up on stage now that it had been cleared of all the instruments and ignited a dance-off. DJ UV moved from one music genre to the other as the night deepened. Finally, those who had been craving a good jig had been catered to.