London, Sunday @PeopleSports11 They would not have tolerated this from Jose Mourinho or Louis van Gaal.  They certainly would not have taken it from a David Moyes Manchester United. So how long will they stomach it from Ole Gunnar Solskjaer? Suffice to say that if the current United manager does not start next season well then judgement may come earlier than he ever could have imagined. This was pauper’s football from Solskjaer’s United team, football devoid of imagination and fluency. Solskjaer’s United, the one that started so vividly under him back in winter, has been steadily regressing for weeks and we would call this rock bottom if only we were remotely convinced they couldn’t get any worse. Here was the inevitable conclusion of weeks of decline under Solskjaer, a failure to beat one of the worst teams ever to play Premier League football and failure to qualify for the Champions League at a time when their rivals from London have seemingly been doing their very best to help them out. United have taken eight points from their last eight league games. A point a game over the course of a season would get you 38. In old money they would call that relegation form and the only excuse open to Solskjaer is that these are not his players. But just as the Norwegian was given the credit for the revival that followed his arrival, so he must take responsibility for this. He didn’t buy these players but he does coach them and one wonders what they have been doing daily at Carrington. To put this juddering result in to context, Huddersfield have been relegated since the end of March. Before this game the Yorkshire club had lost all but two of their previous 24 games.  The only teams not to beat them during that spell were Wolves (who lost 1-0) and Cardiff (who drew 0-0). So to fail here at the John Smiths Stadium takes some doing and afterwards Solskjaer’s rhetoric was familiar as he talked of an uncertain future for his players and threatened, albeit in that smiling, rather vague way of his, to promote members of the age group teams next season. -DAILYMAIL