Germs are all around us, on us and on every surface you can imagine. The Kenya Medical Research Institute early this week found that phones and money contain large amounts of deadly disease-causing germs. Forget about obvious culprits, such as toilets, door handles and rubbish bins, there are also many common and everyday surfaces that can be a haven for these illness-inducing bugs and germs. Here are the dirtiest of them all 1. Money Kenya Medical Research Institute (Kemri) early  this week found that money, especially the Sh20 coins and Sh50 notes, circulating in Nairobi contain large amounts of deadly disease-causing germs. The scientists tested money and phones from 395 food handlers in 15 different types of outlets in Nairobi county and confirmed the two items to be highly tainted with germs. The money was tested for eight types of disease-causing organisms and all were confirmed present on the notes and coins. Of these, 20 per cent were food-borne pathogens. Staphylococcus species, well known for causing skin, heart and bone infections, food poisoning, pneumonia and toxic shock in humans, was found to be the most prevalent in all denominations. Other pathogens found in the money and known to cause serious human diseases were Bacillus species, which may cause food poisoning, shock, meningitis and blood poisoning. The E. coli pathogens, a contaminant usually from human feaces and known to cause most of urinary tract infections, was also found in the money among other equally dangerous pathogens. 2. Phones Phones were tested and confirmed to be tainted with 12 pathogens, with Staphylococcus species being the most prevalent. If you touch your face or mouth after handling your phone, you could increase your chances for infections like the cold, the flu and cellulitis. One study found young adults check their phones about 85 times a day; a separate study discovered one in six phones are home to fecal matter and E. coli, which can cause diarrhoea, nausea or fever. Most phones are placed in warm pockets, too great places for bacteria to grow. 3. Hand towels Bacteria like to grow in wet, moist conditions. Towels are made to absorb water, which is great for drying your skin, but not so great when it comes to discouraging bacterial incubation. Most people don’t wash their hands properly, so when they use the towel, they are rubbing bacteria into an ideal growing environment. Health experts recommend that you should wash towels after every two days of use. 4. Toothbrush holder These as well as the toothbrushes themselves are another bathroom reservoirs of germs because they are rarely cleaned. A 2011 report from the public health organisation NSF International found 27 per cent of toothbrush holders were home to Coliform bacteria, a sickness-causing family of micro-organism that includes Salmonella and E. coli. 5. Kitchen sponge The sponge is likely the dirtiest item in your home. The kitchen sponge has the potential to carry food-borne bugs like Campylobacter, E. coli and salmonella, which come from raw chicken and beef. These bugs can cause nausea, diarrhoea, chills and fever. According to a 2017 study, just a single cubic centimetre can be home to 50,000,000,000 different bacteria—which is approximately seven times the number of people on earth. Since sponges retain water, they can be home to yeast and mould, as well. Researchers have found out that 75 per cent of home dish sponges and rags also contain Coliform. 6. Supermarket carts Almost 100 per cent of them are home to E. coli because people are constantly touching the handles after holding raw food products. Saliva and fecal matter are other germs that have been found on grocery carts. That’s not all; if you let your child ride in it, she could come in contact with the juices of raw meats. The common cold and the flu are spread via shopping cart, as well. They are covered with more bacteria than is found in a public restroom. One handle could have up to 11 million microorganisms, including some from raw meat. Not to mention dirty diapers and runny noses. 7. Restaurant menu Menus, especially plastic ones, pass through many sets of hands throughout the course of a day, and each hand leaves behind some of the germs it has collected along the way. Restaurants are supposed to wipe down plastic menus using a disinfectant frequently, but so many times, the employees either don’t soak the cleaning cloth in disinfectant long enough to kill its germs or they don’t take time to wipe the menus completely. Order your food from the menu and then wash or sanitise your hands before eating. 8. Your handbag You stick your hands in it all the time. But you rarely clean it. That accounts for the bacteria that live inside it. The places you leave it, like dirty counters, bathroom stalls, and car floorboards, account for the germs on the outside. If you regularly place your handbag on a dirty counter or bathroom floor, you could be in for even more germs, like salmonella, E. coli, fungi and strep. Hang it on a hook when you can, and clean it with antibacterial wipes. 9. Elevator buttons and light switches They are probably cleaned less frequently than bathrooms. The best choice for your health is to take the stairs. Otherwise, try to push the button with your elbow or the tip of a pen, or use alcohol-based hand sanitiser before and after pushing the button. ATM buttons or screens can also be covered in germs. Light switches are never cleaned. And after years of being flipped up and down, they tend to end up with hundreds of bacteria per square inch. 10. Remote controls Not only do their cracks and crevices make them ideal for microbes, spores, and bodily fluids to hide, but also studies have found semen and urine on remotes, especially public remote controls. Coliform bacteria, mould, and potentially even the infection causing Staphylococcus aureus according to scientists is found on 14 per cent of household remotes.