Tension and panic gripped employees of the Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) countrywide yesterday as detectives raided the Mombasa offices in the ongoing crackdown on officials suspected of aiding tax evasion. At KRA headquarters in Nairobi, top managers held a crisis meeting with members of staff and defended Commissioner General John Njiraini whom many employees are accusing of orchestrating the crackdown that has so far seen 53 of their colleagues appear before court over abuse of office and tax evasion charges. Detectives are now hunting down 22 employees believed to have been part of the racket but have gone underground following the wave of arrests. Although operations were going on, sources said they were at a snail’s pace as anxious employees feared they would be next on the chopping board. In Mombasa, detectives from the Special Crimes Unit raided the port of Mombasa and the Customs House and confiscated documents they believed to be key in their investigations. For the third day running, the sleuths from the DCI headquarters in Nairobi, working with those from the authority’s Intelligence and Strategic Operations department camped at the port of Mombasa, said to be the epicentre of the tax evasion scheme. Crisis meetings In Nairobi, Njiraini and KRA board chairman Francis Muthaura sought to assure staff that normalcy had returned. The two, according to sources, held a series of meetings with departmental heads and staff, to assure them that in future, such an operation would be conducted in a different manner and urged them to continue operations without interruption. But the staff are said to have dismissed the assurances, saying they no longer trusted Njiraini and demanded that he issues a memo on the same. At the end of the day, Muthaura released an internal memo assuring staff while another statement was dispatched to newsrooms. In his statement, Muthaura reassured the employees that the crackdown did not target at any group of individuals or category of staff. He absolved Njiraini from blame over the crackdown, saying “the ongoing investigations are an initiative of the national government investigative agencies.” Graft war “This should, therefore, neither be characterised as a personal agenda driven by specific individuals within the authority nor as a scheme targeting groups or categories of staff,” Muthaura said. He also reaffirmed KRA’s resolve to continue with the fight against corruption and other fraudulent activities. “The board treats incidences of tax evasion as serious crime that demand resolute action against both taxpayers and staff members who may abet such practices. We wish to express our confidence in the Commissioner General and the management team and assure the public that the operations of KRA continue uninterrupted,” he said. He said revenue collection services at the agency continued uninterrupted despite the crackdown. Sources at Times Towers told People Daily that a number of staff had kept off the offices in Nairobi, Kisumu, Eldoret, Mombasa, Nyeri and border points for fear of arrest. “Nobody is talking to another because nobody knows who is who. But we know we have several detectives among us, so we are very careful,” said a KRA employee who spoke on condition of anonymity. The staff have since formed a WhatsApp group through which they are trying to raise money to bail out arrested colleagues. In Mombasa, detectives are also said to have raided several homes of KRA officers thought to be on the run. The raids took place in Bamburi, Kiembeni and Nyali estates. Details of the raids on the private homes remained scanty. Detectives were also digging up information on some of the KRA staff alleged to own several flats in Bamburi area. One of the detectives told our reporter that they had taken away dozens of documents both in soft and hard copy for verification. Computers and mobile phones belonging to some of the staff were also seized. “We are looking for those who have gone into hiding, we are also compiling information to build our case,” he said. The raid came a day after 38 KRA employees were ordered detained for 14 days by the court to allow investigations into allegations of abetting tax evasion and bribery. Forensic exam Senior resident magistrate Paul Mayova on Monday allowed police to detain the suspects to enable officers retrieve data from 178 seized phones and laptops as well as M-Pesa statements for forensic examination. The employees on the run are part of about 100 staff being investigated for fraudulent clearance of cargo and altering of tax returns to help in tax evasion. Others are accused of issuing tax compliance certificates illegally. On Friday, KRA said it had interdicted 75 employees involved in various scandals after being under covert watch for four months.