Zachary Ochuodho @zachuodho Kenya is operating a shilling that is overvalued by at least 30 per cent and not free floating, gravitating towards making locally produced goods more expensive. Speaking while unveiling a report on what is ailing Kenya’s economy, Amana Capital chief investment officer Reginald Kadzutu said the local currency is currently overvalued. This comes six months after the International Monetary Fund (IMF) raised similar sentiments that the government is managing the shilling rather than allowing it to be influenced by forces of demand and supply. Speaking at a Nairobi hotel yesterday Kadzutu said it is expected that increasing demand for dollars to pay for imports and debt servicing would make the shilling stagger as opposed to what is currently happening. “The question that now beckons is why does the demand for the dollar not filter into the pressure with the shilling,” he posed, adding that Kenya has been operating a “managed shilling” than a free float currency. This, he said, makes the country run the risk of making its exports more expensive in the short run as compared to competitors. In the report dubbed “Kenya’s Economic Puzzle: Putting the pieces together”, it emerged that 10 years ago, the Consumer Price Index (CPI) stood at 97 but has since shot up to 192, meaning that what Sh100 could buy in January 2009 can only buy 50 per cent of that now. This translates into a 50 per cent devaluation of the purchasing power – which is not the case with the shilling that apparently is said to have appreciated by 0.8 per cent in 2019 against the US Dollar in addition to 1.3 per cent in 2018. Export structure The study which provides an analysis of the balance of trade noted that trade deficit has increased by 26 per cent from 2013 to 2018 and it will not change the direction in the near future based on the weak export structure and a weather dependent agricultural sector. The report further said that Kenya’s main export tea has been dropping in price and coffee’s demand has also been on a downward trend. “Due to this, pressure will persist on the Kenya shilling as imports will continue to grow, importation of grains will increase with the drought forecast and the slow death of the sugar sector will also, put an increasing demand on raw sugar imports,” the report said. The report added that Kenya currently earns around Sh500 billion in exports, but on the other hand has a staggering foreign debt of Sh2.7 trillion and imports of close to a similar amount. This mismatch is also not supported by the balance of payments method of valuing a currency as there is only Sh500 billion in export earnings versus Sh2.5 trillion in import expenditure and Sh2.7 trillion in foreign debt even if you add investment flows and diaspora remittance figures. John Kirimi, Sterling Investment Capital director, however, said although the report appears well argued, the strength of the shilling is determined by supply and demand for foreign currency. He said while the research may have got the level of loans outstanding and that of imports, they may not have taken into account invisible exports such as tourism and the capital account which takes account of receipts such as foreign direct investments, aid and capital market transactions among others. Central Bank of Kenya Governor, Patrick Njoroge last year defended the shilling’s performance, saying it was properly valued.