If you’re a sports star, and you’ve got a massive match, whatever you do DON’T take a picture with Drake. The Canadian rapper, famous for hits including God’s Plan and Hotline Bling, has become somewhat of a curse for footballers including Sergio Aguero, Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang and Jadon Sancho – who all met him and then tasted surprise defeats. And it’s got British boxing champ Anthony Joshua’s head in a spin ahead of his fight with Andy Ruiz Jr. AJ is considering banning the hip-hop star from his dressing room because he doesn’t want the bad luck charm to jinx him. In an interview with ESPN, ahead of his American debut on June 1, Joshua said: “I know I shouldn’t (welcome him in the dressing room). You know about the Drake curse? It’s real though.” And it certainly is, as SunSport can now testify. The omen Looking at the evidence, it’s the football world that’s mostly been affected of late. Even Italian club Roma have cottoned on, joking on their Twitter that they’ve banned all their players from taking photos with the singer until the end of the season. Even in Europe they’re not safe. Jadon Sancho’s Dortmund were stunned 5-0 by Bayern Munich after the English winger hung out with the performer. While PSG’s Layvin Kurzawa happily posed for a snap with Drizzy ahead of what looked like an easy game against Lille in Ligue 1 back in April. Somehow their star-studded team lost 5-1 – their biggest defeat in the French top flight for 19 years! Reverse the curse A mad Toronto Raptors fan, Drake often scores courtside tickets to watch the NBA giants. However, he’s never brought them much luck as they’ve continued to fall at the final hurdle. But being an armchair fan seems to have helped matters – and now he’s even managed to turn the curse towards the opposition. The Raptors played the Philadelphia 76ers on Sunday in game 7 of the Conference semi-finals, and miraculously won. Immediately, Drake took to Twitter to celebrate, and shared a video showing him wearing Philadelphia 76ers shorts. With the Milwaukee Bucks up next, Drake will be urged to do the same again by his mates and stay away from the Scotiabank Arena. Serena and McGregor too Back in 2015, when Drake and Serena Williams started dating – the rapper thought he would cheer on his love at the US Open. He decided to attend her semi-final against Roberta Vinci, a 300-1 underdog who Serena was expected to roll over. Shockingly, Vinci triumphed in three sets – 2-6, 6-4, 6-4 – and the world was stunned. But Serena poured cold water over the curse. She told Glamour magazine: “I’m the one who’s playing, who’s making mistakes or making winners.