HIV prevalence in Nairobi County has drastically reduced from 6.1 percent to 5.9 percent for the last three years This is after introduction of a two-year project dubbed Program Quality and Efficiency (PQE) Project by the Global Fund which is being implemented by the National AIDS STI Control Program under the Ministry Of Health. The project follows a collaborative quality improvement design which is a shared learning system that brings together a large number of teams to work together to rapidly achieve significant improvements in processes, quality, and efficiency in the implementation of Differentiated Care, with intention of spreading these methods to other sites. “The project aims at demonstrating quality and efficiency in the implementation of differentiated care in 70 facilities across seven Counties namely; Nairobi, Kisumu, Vihiga, Nakuru, Homabay, Mombasa and Kwale where it is being piloted,” said Nairobi county, County Executive Member – Health Services, Mohamed Dagane. Speaking at Mbagathi, one of the centers where this project is been piloted during the visit of Global Fund Executive Director Peter Sands to the facility to see the progress of the PQE project., Nairobi Governor, Mike Mbuvi Sonko said that the rationale for the Program was born following recommendations of Differentiated Care implementation in 2016 ARV Guidelines to support Test and Start Policy in Kenya. At this time, there was an increase in the number of patients accessing antiretroviral therapy in Kenya without additional funding to expand the human resource and other resources that are critical in handling extra burden on the health system. “The project aims at achieving much with minimal resources and at the same time reducing the burden on health system through the implementation of Differentiated Care through a quality improvement approach which involves, training of coaches, coaching exercises, engagement in learning sessions  and site level testing and implementation of change ideas .” According to Dagane, currently, the county has approximately 191,000 people who are already diagnosed with HIV/Aids and 99 percent of them have been put on HIV drugs to ensure that their Virus loads are suppressed. At Mbagathi level 4 hospital, their Outpatient Department HIV clinic serves about 5,000 active patients with an average workload of approximately 80-120 clients per day. Based on this level of workload, that is why Mbagathi Hospital was selected alongside other nine facilities in Nairobi County to demonstrate this project. Sonko noted that child mortality rate has gone down and there has been an improvement in the prevention of mother-to-child transmission of HIV since the program was initiated. He added that HIV preventive measures have improved from 47 percent in 2002 to 90 percent in 2019 in Nairobi.