Former Ethics and Governance permanent secretary John Githongo suffered a major blow yesterday when the High Court ordered him to pay former Internal Security minister Chris Murungaru Sh27 million for defamation. Justice Joseph Sergon said Githongo had no evidence to back the allegations he made   on Murungaru regarding the multi-billion-shilling Anglo Leasing scandal. The judge ordered Githongo to pay Murungaru Sh20 million in general damages, Sh5 million in exemplary damages, and Sh2 million in special damages. The case is connected with the Anglo Leasing scandal in which billions of shillings are believed to have been lost in dubious security printing contracts during President Mwai Kibaki’s administration. Dossier As Kibaki’s adviser on corruption, Githongo had in 2006 prepared a dossier which linked Murungaru, then Vice President Moody Awori, Cabinet ministers Kiraitu Murungi and David Mwiraria to the Anglo Leasing scam. All the ministers, except Awori, were either dropped or resigned from the Cabinet after the dossier became public. Self exile Githongo had left the country on an official visit to London from where he released the dossier and sought refuge for nearly three years, saying he feared for his life. He returned to Kenya for the first time  in October 2009, a few months after the book “It’s Our Turn to Eat: The Story of a Kenyan Whistle-Blower,” by Michela Wrong was published.  The book was a continuation of Githongo’s expose on Anglo Leasing. Reacting to the judgment, Githongo, in a press statement said he was “disappointed though unsurprised” by the judgment in the matter that has drudged through the courts for 13 years. “It is my plan to appeal this judgment as vigorously as possible. Unfortunately, the court also disallowed witness evidence in my regard and we have filed my intention to appeal on this basis as well,” he said in the press statement. He noted that the Anglo Leasing model of misappropriation of resources had continued unabated since 2001 and he will not lose perspective as a result of the judgment. No evidence “I remain committed to continuing the fight against corruption in Kenya and I’m undeterred by distractions engineered by the very thieves stealing from Kenyans,” he stated. During the hearing of the case, Githongo had told the court that he was not aware that Murungaru was charged or investigated by Kenya Anti-Commission over Anglo Leasing scandal. He also admitted that he had no documentary evidence of any corrupt payments made to former Internal Security Minister in connection with the controversial Anglo Leasing contracts. Githongo said the defunct Kenya Anti-Corruption Commission (KACC) never provided him with any information regarding assets allegedly acquired by Murungaru from proceeds of corrupt activities or the outcome of its investigations regarding 18 security-related government contracts. The dossier contained detailed information of the fraudulent scheme, which began with efforts to replace Kenya’s passport printing system. Even though the original price was €6 million (Sh681 million at current rates), the tender was eventually awarded to a British firm, Anglo Leasing and Finance, at €30 million (Sh3.4 billion). The shadowy British firm would then subcontract a French firm which had quoted the Sh681 million. The report by Githongo stated that the British firm was non-existent. The scam saw Anglo Leasing Finance paid Sh2.7 billion (at the current exchange rate) to supply the Kenyan government with a system to print new high-technology passports. Other fictitious companies involved in the scandal that rocked Kibaki’s government in 2003-2004 were given money to supply naval ships and forensic laboratories, which were never delivered on time.