Cheese and sprinkles! Have you ever had a meal that knocks your socks off? Have you ever been introduced to new cuisine and every bite was just perfect?  That’s not something that happens often, especially if you are only drawn to specific foods. I am not quite easy to please when it comes to food. A while back, I was introduced to some vegetarian food, paneer. It’s an Indian dish made from milk curd cheese. It was far the best I’ve ever had. As much as Indian food is spicy, I was completely blown away by the flavours.  That was a good introduction to vegetarian food and the Indian cuisine indeed set the bar. Apparently, there is a difference between vegetarian and vegan food. While both don’t consume meat, vegetarians tend to consume dairy products while vegans don’t consume anything animal related. That’s how I again found myself trying out whole new dining experience. Njeri and I fellowship in the same church and I happened to be part of her baby shower group. I may be the outlier on this, but I think baby showers/gender reveal parties and other life celebrations are criminally overrated. For 15 women, we had to contribute close to Sh3,000 per person. Outrageous! Anyways, since Njeri works in the corporate world, most of her ‘gang’ tends to consist of bourgie people who engage in bourgie activities. That’s how one of her lady friends suggested something completely different. The party was to happen at the Hob House, a Levantine restaurant located in Kitusuru, Nairobi. The place is hosted by Kelly and Peter and from their many travels around the world and interacting with different cultures, settled for ‘Hob,’ which is Arabic for love. The restaurant is Lebanese, which offers a Levantine cuisine, traditional cuisine of the Levant, or Eastern Mediterranean, which is quite popular in Arab countries. The Hob House is indeed a hidden jewel. When we got to the house, it looked like someone moved the palatial countryside house and plopped it right in the middle of the suburbs. It is something I am not used to. The place took me to a world of tranquil luxury. I loved the theme, which was rustic with touches of Ankara. We had booked an outdoor setting that had an unobstructed view of the lush gardens. You could just sit and enjoy the ambience. For our visit, a three-course menu was arranged. We started with spinach fatayers and shorbat adas soup. The fatayers tasted more like taco veggies. I could taste the elements of cheese and spices. I took my time to savour small pieces of each item. I paired it with a mimosa, an alcohol-free sparkling wine and orange juice. It was amazing. The main dish options were between the chicken fatte or the tabbouleh with zaatar. I wanted to stay familiar with what I was eating, so I settled for the chicken fatte. They really do serve generous portions, which we were told was normal for Lebanese dishes. We gorged ourselves on this delicious cuisine. My dish had layers of fate cheese that were toned down by the wine, and blended really well. Not another entrée, but it was time for dessert. I was too stuffed, but I had to try the chia seed pudding. I didn’t like the yoghurt esque ropiness and the coconut milk taste. However, all the other girls seemed to enjoy it. So it was just my peculiar palate and I. I instead took the Sherbet, a drink made from condensed milk, rose syrup and roasted nuts. That was the best drink I ever had. It was so refreshing. The service was a bit sluggish but that is nit picking on an otherwise wonderful experience to be honest. It was quite the culinary experience at the Hob House and the ambience was top notch. The food was out of this world plus it was affordable with most dishes going for under Sh1,000. The Hob House also offers accommodation ranging from Sh12,000 per night depending on the season. So go ahead, get out of your comfort zone and treat yourself to a different dining experience. You won’t regret it.