Amos Abuga @PeopleSport11 Kenyan athletics coaches have questioned the timing of a controversial article published by Britain’s Daily Mail Online after Sunday’s London Marathon won by world record holder Eliud Kipchoge. Kenya dominated the 39th edition of the London Marathon, with Kipchoge and Brigid Kosgei taking the major honours. Kipchoge particularly ran the second fastest marathon time ever 2:02.37 to clinch his fourth London Marathon title. According to the article published on Sunday under the headline, “The evolution of marathon running in recent years is troubling… it’s hard not to question the elite in the £1bn (Sh 100 billion) race,” the Daily Mail. Coaches David Kirwa and David Letting say the timing of the article is very questionable given that Kenyan athletes dominated proceedings in the British capital. “We couldn’t be having this conversation had Britain’s Mo Farah won the race. While doping is global issues, it is not right to take the shine away from Kipchoge,” said Kirwa. In many instances, Athletics Kenya  (AK) officials insisted that the praises the British tabloids could have showered a British winner in either of the races could be monumental. Rigorous training “If at all it was a British winner, there could be graphic presentations like the first time Mo Farah won in Chicago and like they have done when he won in other competitions. Apparently, what they are doing at the moment is castigating and indirectly casting aspersions over a win by an athlete they do not like or respect. Kipchoge worked so hard for the win and we should all respect his sacrifice and training ahead of the event,” said Barnaba Korir, a member of the AK National Executive Committee. For Letting the article is even discrediting the hard and rigorous training regimes conducted by Kenya coaches and the athletes and therefore should be brushed aside. “We win clean,” said Letting. “I know several athletes who train for 365 days without rest, let us not take the credit away from them,” added Letting. While it is no secret there are doping allegations in the country, the coach is very particular such should be treated just as individuals and not the blanket condemnation currently witnessed. “We compete individually and win individually, I will not go all out preaching how USA is doping when an individual athlete there is caught cheating, we have to differentiate the two,” added Kirwa. ‘Even in a family set up, not all kids are obedient or follow the parents’ teachings, there are exceptions, that is life,” Kirwa went further. On his part AK boss Jackson Tuwei says it is ridiculous that when an athlete from Kenya wins the issues of trust are brought up while trying to belittle the nation based on isolated cases. Health hazard “Not that we are managing a state sponsored doping scheme, I am on the record advocating for clean running, we train our athletes on the dangers of doping not only is it cheating but also the health hazards that are associated with it, therefore we need to be sober with this discussion,” said Tuwei.