Following the footsteps of their government, poor, unemployed youth sink knee-deep in personal debt in a vicious circle of lending from some 49 mobile lending platforms PD Special Correspondent @PeopleDailyKe Kenyans are building up personal debts to dangerous levels, threatening their own financial stability, experts have warned. The  growing unhealthy appetite for quick loans is best illustrated by the phenomenal growth of Fuliza, the new Safaricom overdraft platform, which within a month of its launch had splurged Sh6.2 billion, Sh29 billion in three months and a whopping Sh45 billion in six months to borrowers. Experts say what makes the credit situation serious is that a majority of those who have developed a huge appetite for borrowing—especially through the multiple mobile phone-based platforms—are jobless youth and low income earners who either do not have clear repayment plans or irregular income. Quick fixes Most of these vulnerable borrowers usually need a quick fix for food, fees, housing, school fees and even betting, but a few pump the cash into their small businesses while others use it to finance merry go-rounds. One of those who have been monitoring the “booming borrowing craze” is Sam Omukoko, the managing director of Metropol Corporation, a Credit Reference Bureau (CRB) based in Nairobi. And he is alarmed at the rate Kenyans are gobbling up and accumulating personal debt. “This thing will soon reach boiling point,”  he warns, adding that; “an average Kenyan these days has at least five or more accounts, ranging from bank, Sacco and a number of mobile phone-based platforms”. According to Omukoko, some of the Kenyans accumulating debt and are unable to repay may soon find themselves uncreditworthy. Reports from the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics (KNBS) and other stakeholders indicate that the borrowed money is mostly used for consumerism—borrowing to spend on food, recreation and other basic recurrent expenditure and not for investment. Omukoko says there is an emerging trend of many borrowers resorting to dodging their financiers— and even worse,  in a typical survival tactic of robbing Peter to pay Paul; borrowing from one platform to pay another. For others,  taking flight from the creditors by registering multiple mobile numbers for use when they feel cornered by their creditors, is their best survival tactic. The loan dodging, gave birth to Omukoko’s organisation, Metropol CRBs, which among others, amalgamates all the information they have on a borrower and turn it into a credit score to measure one’s creditworthiness. This has now become a critical tool lenders use to evaluate potential borrowers. The score, which ranges between 200 and 900 has rating with remarks from poor to excellent, tells them about the person. Many of the vulnerable— and with some unaware of some unsettled mundane credit— have found themselves blacklisted because of poor credit scores. Default rate According to Kamau Kunyiha, CreditInfo chief  executive, while the rate of default on mobile phone-based platforms was low at around 9.6 per cent as at the end of 2018, the worry is the growing trend in which people are borrowing to retire existing credit. “It is a fact that people are multi-borrowing, but the issue is we do not know to what extent,” he said.  He reckons that so far 97 per cent of the money lent through the mobile phone-based apps is supported by banks and that there is no immediate threat to the financial system. Also, that most of the money lent out is normally repaid with just about a million Kenyans blacklisted. An analysts at Financial Sector Deepening (FSD), an organisation that follows issues on debt and financial inclusion, noted that the threat from the borrowing trend lies in the fact that the consumers of such credit do not get value from what they borrow because they mostly spend the amounts on recurrent expenditure. “There is no growth value proposition from the amounts borrowed as they are mostly used to plug into recurrent expenditures and not for development purposes,” said a source at FSD Kenya, who asked not to be mentioned due to organisation protocols. “Also the cost of credit is very high”. Mobile phone-based lending platforms have taken the Kenya lending space by storm as they rush to fill up the lending space left by traditional banking since the law capping interest rates was introduced. Currently, Kenya has at least 49 digital lending facilities dishing out between Sh50 to Sh50,000. Leading platforms include MShwari, Fuliza, KCB-MPesa, Tala, Branch and Saida. According to FSD Kenya, Safaricom’s Mshwari has disbursed a total of Sh230 billion since 2012 while KCB, one of the country’s largest financial instituitons, now advances 90 per cent of its loans through its mobile platform KCB-M-Pesa. Self-regulation Experts say the space in which the digital lending facilities operate is too fluid and needs to self- regulate to check predatory lending practices before the government steps in. Such guidelines should also be directed at consumer awareness and education on the cost of digital credit and terms and conditions of the loans. The guidelines should also spearhead an awareness programme on effective use of credit from such facilities.