Despite boasting of seven-point advantage over Sofapaka in the SportPesa Premier League, Gor Mahia have opted to play their cards close to their chest. A layman would easily tip either team to clinch the gong but the talking point at the moment is the two teams’ second meeting of the season at Moi Stadium in Kisumu on Sunday. This is simply because the result of the match that is expected to be played under sweltering conditions might as well give hint as to where the title is headed to. When both teams were involved in their respective midweek matches last Wednesday, fingers were crossed among their faithful as a loss from either side would have impacted negatively in their SPL title ambitions. Gor who are in the driving seat of the league secured a 2-0 win over Chemelil Sugar at Moi Stadium in Kisumu while Sofapaka who are second in the pecking order won by a similar margin over Western Stima at Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos. Gor coach Hassan Oktay has said that they will be not be carried by the success going into the match against Sofapaka. “We may be described as potential titlists but there is simply now way we can take things for granted. This is SPL which is very competitive and the fact that we are up against a strong Sofapaka side is reason for us to take the match seriously,” said Oktay. Gor are not only enjoying a seven-point lead over Batoto Ba Mungu but also have a match at hand over the latter which implies that an 18th SPL title is theirs to lose. But given that football is a game full of surprises it would be foolhardy to rate Sofapaka as rank outsiders and especially given their stunning revival in the top-tier league. Sofapaka coach John Baraza said he expects a high noon and has instructed his charges to remain focused against the league giants with whom rivalry has been scripted over the last few years. “We have to minimise mistakes for a good measure and remain focused throughout the regulation time. We need to be cautious especially the defence but all in all, we have the potential to win the match,” said Baraza. Umaru Kasumba has been on-song for Sofapaka and the Ugandan alongside Kepha Aswani should run errands in the team’s attack while Gor have the likes of Kenneth Muguna and Jacques Tuyisenge to look upon for inspiration. In the meantime, AFC Leopards will be hoping to bounce back from an uninspiring 1-1 draw with Zoo Kericho when they stalk Sony Sugar in Awendo. Ingwe were their own worst enemies when they allowed Zoo to pull off the equaliser at death and will be hoping that such mistake will not recur against a relatively stronger Sony side. In Kasarani, Mathare United coach Francis Kimanzi will be aiming to motivate his charges to beat relegation-threatened Mount Kenya United. – CHARLES THUKU