Baraka Karama and Douglas Dindi @PeopleDailyKe All police officers who have served in one station for more than four years will be transferred, Interior Cabinet secretary Fred Matiang’i said yesterday The CS said the redeployment, scheduled to begin next month, will affect junior and senior officers and is also aimed at delocalising police stations. At the same time, Matiang’i announced that he government had deployed General Service Unit (GSU) officers to hunt down killer gangs in Matungu sub-county, Kakamega county following the recent wave of killings that has claimed  20 lives in two months. The CS, who visited the troubled area yesterday,  asked the residents to prepare for a major operation targeting the gangs who have been raiding homes at night. He said the operation would continue until all the suspects are arrested. He disclosed that a key suspect believed to have been coordinating the killings from Kawangware, Nairobi has been arrested. “If you are part of this gang surrender to the police within 14 days,” Matiang’i said at Harambee Primary School grounds. The CS said preliminary investigations had established that senior politicians were sponsoring the gangs. On the planned police transfers, Matiang’i said the National Police Commission will introduce delocalisation policy where police officers will not be allowed to serve in their home counties. Major operation “We are going to look into the list and make sure that if you come from Nyamira, you will be deployed in Kwale or Garissa. This will help in improving our security,” he said during his tour of Matungu. Matiang’i said more than 100 GSU officers had been deployed in the area. “From tonight we are embarking on a major operation that must yield fruit,” he said. The CS was accompanied by Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya, Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai, MPs Justus Murunga (Matungu) Ben Washiali (Mumias East) and Justus Kizito (Shinyalu). The leaders blamed the local police officers for laxity in combating the crime that has escalated to various parts of the county.