PD team @PeopleSports11 Football Kenya Federation (FKF) has suspended referees Joshua Achilla, Collins Opiyo and Hosea Omondi after a review of questionable decisions they made during selected SportPesa Premier League (SPL) matches. The move comes a day after People Sport published a story about some club officials questioning the credibility of certain referee following a spate of poor officiating at a crucial stage of the league. The FKF Ad Hoc Committee imposed a suspension for a period not exceeding three rounds of the SPL on Omondi and  Achila, while Opiyo will be out for four matches. KPL Assistant Referee Achilla was reprimanded for two decisions he made in AFC Leopards’ loss to Gor Mahia during the ‘Mashemeji Derby’ played in February at the Kasarani Stadium. “On two occasions, Achilla’s decisions on offside have changed the result of matches. First he made two crucial decisions which had an  impact on the Gor Mahia against Leopards match played on Feb 9, at the Kasarani Stadium. Then he denied Ulinzi Stars a goal through a wrong decision during their match against Sofapaka,” read the statement signed by FKF General Secretary Robert Muthomi. Omondi was faulted for failing to send off Gor goalkeeper Shaban Odhoji for denying Sony Sugar a goal-scoring opportunity by a deliberate handball outside the penalty area. The committee, which sat to deliberate on the above, noted inconsistency and lack of authority in officiating hence indirectly influencing the result of the match and as a result, suspended Omondi for two matches. Opiyo, on his part, was chastised for awarding a questionable penalty to Sofapaka in their match against KCB played on April 14 at the Machakos Stadium. “After a thorough review of the incident in a video clip that resulted in a penalty, the committee is convinced that Opiyo’s decision was questionable since it is the attacker who initiated contact after realising that he had lost possession in the penalty area,” the statement read. Also on the list of suspended referees is Nick Indieka, who will sit out three rounds of the National Super League (NSL), following allegations brought his disrespect to FKF Nairobi West Branch officials during their Referees Seminar at the Hope Centre. Meanwhile, NSL and Women’s Premier League referee Joseph Nyaga, has been served with a warning letter for absconding duty without proper justification while Meshack Omondi has been vindicated for his decision to extend added time by eight minutes in Wazito’s home match against Shabana which was abandoned after crowd trouble.