David Shariff @PeopleDailyKe Political leaders from Kilifi county have said they will not support Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party in the 2022 General Election. Led by Kilifi North MP Owen Baya, they accused the party of humiliating leaders from the region. Speaking during the burial of Mzee Justus Mwanyanje, father of Kilifi Woman Rep Getrude Mbeyu at Rojo village in Kilifi town, Baya revealed that they had  started a campaign to unite the Mijikenda community and the entire Coast region ahead of the poll. Their sentiments came a day after Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa snatched a microphone from ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna as he addressed mourners in Kilifi on Friday during Mombasa Deputy Governor William Kingi’s father’s burial. Hand shake When Sifuna started to speak, Jumwa, who was the master of ceremony, walked to the stage and grabbed the microphone from him, accusing him of “talking politics during a funeral”. Baya said leaders have had enough from ODM and were now forging unity for the region to decide as a block in 2022. He said they are now looking for ways to unite the community to map their political future as a block going forward. Baya said leaders from other regions have long misused the Mijikenda community. Others present were Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi, MPs Michael Kingi (Magarini), Paul Katana (Kaloleni), William Kamoti (Rabai),Teddy Mwambire (Ganze), Nominated Senator Christine Zawadi, among others. Kaloleni MP Paul Katana said time had come the region to be included in the national politics ahead of  2022 saying that as leaders they shall make sure the region’s unity is attained. Disrespectful Meanwhile, Kwale Woman Rep Zuleikha Juma has condemned Jumwa for snatching a microphone from  Sifuna when he was addressing mourners. Juma said the incident was disrespectful and totally meant to cast ODM in bad light. “It wasn’t just against the SG, it was against the image of the party. Politicians make all matter of statements at funerals, what does respecting Mijikenda have to do with it? Aisha Jumwa doesn’t have a monopoly on the community,” she said. In a statement the legislator said if Aisha thought Sifuna had said something offensive, she could have sent him a note or gone and whispered to him instead of taking away the microphone.