Alvin Mwangi @PeopleDailyKe Everyday, Washington Odour, 47, and his wife Cynthia Achieng, 34, join the mass of Nairobi’s walking workers as they plod their way to Nairobi’s industrial area. Achieng, struggles to keep up with her husband’s long strides while at the same time keeping up with the conversation, which oscillates between how their five children are doing in school and what the most pressing priority in their budget is. This couple epitomises the life of majority of Kenyans, the  low-income earners, who struggle to make ends meet. They are forced to make do with the little they get to cover all expenses at a time when the cost of living has skyrocketed. When People Daily caught up with them at 6.37am yesterday as they headed to work, they were already exhausted, having walked for several kilometres and had more distance to cover before reaching their workplace. Oduor, who works with a plastic manufacturing company, said they wake up at 4am to trek all the way from Silanga in Kibera to Industrial area. His wife operates a food kiosk at industrial area. “Sometimes it gets tough, but we have no choice. Our five children have to be fed and their school fees paid,” said Oduor. Achieng said she once fell ill with pneumonia because of walking in the chilly morning, especially during the rainy season. Oduor, who has been walking to work for a decade, said they decided to walk to work to save money for school fees for three of their children who are in secondary school. “When get tired, sometimes I hung on to a lorry until City Stadium,” said Oduor. Family needs Between them, they make Sh45,000, an amount that is not enough to cover all their expenses including food, rent and school fees. Achieng says what she earns from her small food kiosk goes towards buying food and cater for the children’s other needs. “On a good day, I make Sh500 which I use to buy the stock for the following day and cater for the family’s daily needs,” said Achieng. But with the outbreak of cholera, she said, business has not been doing well because most of her customers now opt to carry their own food. As Kenyans mark Labour Day, the Oduors have little to celebrate. “I can’t waste my time to hear false promises. The government promised to reduce the cost of unga to Sh70 but today I’m buying a 2kg packet at Sh120,” lamented Oduor. GDP growth He is concerned that the government’s proposal to deduct 1.5 per cent housing levy from his pay would make things even harder. Despite Economic Survey 2019 painting a rosy picture of the economy, most Kenyans, are yet to feel it. The 6.3 per cent GDP growth has not done much to make the lives of people like Oduor and Achieng more bearable.