Zachary Ochuodho @zachuodho World Bank has approved a $250 million (Sh25.3 billion) loan to Kenya to help those unable to access long-term housing finance. The credit is expected to boost the government’s Big Four agenda on the Affordable Housing project, which currently appears to be in the limbo after employers went to court saying they were never consulted while employees insist they may not benefit from it. The lender said the Kenya Affordable Housing Finance Project (KAHFP) will support the establishment and   launching of the Kenya Mortgage Refinance Corporation (KMRC) – which is largely private sector-owned and non-deposit taking financial institution under the supervision of the Central Bank of Kenya. Private sector The private sector owns 80 per cent of KMRC while the remaining 20 per cent is for the National Treasury. Only 20 banks and savings and credit co-operative societies (saccos) have contributed  capital so far. Currently, commercial banks in Kenya hold only about 26,000 mortgage loans of an individual value of $110,000 (Sh11 million). The goal of KMRC is to drive affordability of mortgages by providing more long-term funding to financial institutions, an incentive to enable them to offer long-tenure loans to home buyers. Felipe Jaramillo, World Bank Kenya country director said Kenya’s vibrant private sector offers an excellent opportunity to crowd in privately held skills and resources towards achieving the country’s Big Four agenda on affordable housing goals and also in aligning with the World Bank group’s maximising finance for development agenda. “Urban housing currently remains unaffordable for most Kenyans due to the cost of financing, the short loan tenures and the high cost of properties,” he added in a statement. The interest rate cap of 2016 coupled with overall non-performing loan (NPL) ratio of 12 per cent led banks to tighten their credit standards and offer variable rate loans, locking out the middle to low-income would-be homeowners in the process. Currently, Kenyans largely access loans from saccos that provide almost 90 per cent of total housing finance. Jaramillo said while saccos’ interest rates remain low at 12 per cent, they remain highly constrained by the short-term nature of their deposits liabilities and short loan tenures of not more than five years. Mortgage gap The Kenya Affordable Housing Finance Project will target households that are classified by the government to fall within the mortgage gap and low-cost categories and represent 95 per cent of the formally employed population. Caroline Cerruti, World Bank Senior Finance Specialist and Task Team Leader for the project said it will endeavour to boost shared prosperity for all Kenyans by addressing rapid urbanisation which often manifests itself through the development of slums.  