Anthony Mwangi and Hillary Mageka @PeopleDailyKe The storm over the Sh250,000 house allowance legislators have awarded themselves took a new twist when it emerged that they took advantage of a court order that categorised them as State officers. Ironically, the loophole, which the legislators took advantage of was opened by the Salaries and Remuneration Commission (SRC), which failed to defend the suit filed by MPs. SRC chair Lynn Mengich, while reacting to the development, was circumspect saying  the commission would issue a statement in a week’s time “…since the matter is legal and requires careful interrogation.” She, however, expressed  concern about the impact the allowances would have on the wage bill, adding that SRC  would review the situation and take appropriate action. SRC is mandated to rationalise remunerations of all public servants. During first chair Sarah Serem’s tenure, MPs threatened to  disband it while demanding exclusion from any categorisation that falls under its control. Yesterday, the lawmakers remained defiant after each pocketed Sh2.25 million in house allowances backdated to August last year, insisting the award was a done deal despite the salaries body declaring it “null and void”. Defending the decision that has ignited public anger, the legislators said the Parliamentary Service Commission was guided by the High Court ruling in awarding the allowances. No exception Makueni MP Dan Maanzo said every State official is entitled to a house allowance and MPs should not be the exception. “What the Parliamentary Service Commission has done is to effect a court ruling. If all other State officers get a house allowance, why not MPs?” posed Maanzo. The MP said SRC had scrapped house allowances for MPs before the end of their term but the decision was challenged in court which ruled in Parliament’s favour. In December 2018, High Court Judge George Odunga reinstated the Senate and National Assembly members’ pay that had been scrapped by SRC as well as their Sh5,000 sitting allowance for plenary sessions, mileage and the special parliamentary allowances. Justice Odunga quashed the two gazette notices, which meant the status quo remains and said” “It’s now upon the SRC to decide how to continue from there.” Ironically, SRC failed to challenge the ruling. Currently, the Judicial Service Commission (JSC) and the Parliamentary Service Commission (PSC) are out of the SRC ambit with only the Public Service Commission remaining under SRC’s regulation. Arbitrary hikes Members of County Assemblies have also recovered their Sh1.5 billion lost in allowances and wages following the SRC Gazette Notice No 6518 of July 7, last the year, which was also quashed by Justice Odunga. Fears have been expressed that the High Court move marked a return to the era of arbitrary pay hikes by MPs. The court ruling emboldened MPs, who have been clamouring for higher perks under a controversial Bill before the National Assembly that even President Uhuru Kenyatta pledged he would not sign into law should the House pass it. Stalled bill At the same time, reports indicate that the lawmakers are  planning to apply the stalled bill to award themselves additional pay. The Parliamentary Service Bill 2018 has already gone through the second reading but is yet to be tabled for the third reading. The  MPs have, however, gone ahead to implement part of its contents, including the house allowance, People Daily has established. In the bill, Parliament sought to lock out the SRC in the process of determining salaries of the 416 MPs and the powers given to PSC.